


  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Record Number of Alums Compete in Annual Alumni/ae vs Varsity Meet

December 16, 2017

62 MIT Track & Field Alums (affectionately called Has-Beens) showed up to
compete and support in an effort to take down as many of the current varsity
team as possible in the annual Alumni/ae Track & Field meet.  On the men's
side the alumni had the entries necessary to pull off the upset, but that
would require near perfection.  For the alumnae there simply were not enough
entries outside the throws, jumps, pole vault and the Mile.  To aid the alums,
the varsity were without all cross country runners who had participated at the
Regional and National Championships as they needed some down time.

Moving the Alumni/ae Meet back to before the holidays, where it had been until
2004 when it was moved to the second weekend in January, seems to be better
for Has-Been attendance.  Of course the added caveat of not having to race the
national level middle-distance and distance runners should make this date more
attractive as well.

The alumni knew they would have to do some damage in the field events if they
were going to have a chance at the upset.  The Long Jump, High Jump and Weight
Throw were the first events and would dictate how much of a shot the alumni
might have.  Arinze Okeke '17, competing in every field event, was the main
source of point potential in the Long Jump.  After round one, Okeke was in
second place as only Yorai Shaoul '21 was ahead.  After round two, Joa Kennedy
'21 surpassed Okeke and in round three, Mac Gregg '21 moved ahead.  Okeke
improved his mark on his final jump to 20-3 3/4, but he finished out of the
scoring in fourth place.  Gregg jumped an impressive 22-10 and Shaoul was not
far behind at 22-0 1/4.

Marios Michalakis '04, the freshman record holder in the Hammer Throw (175-3)
was the best hope for points in the Weight Throw, but he had not thrown much
since he graduated.  Jon Fakkema '19 threw a personal best 53-0 1/2 to win the
event.  Cody Bratten '18, picking up the Weight again after not having thrown
it for two years due to back problems, took second with Albert Menio '20
claiming third.  Okeke again took fourth, edging out Michalakis.

The High Jump had the potential for the alumni, but age and gravity tend to
take a toll on the Has-Beens.  Jordan Mizerak '14 looked outstanding in
clearing 6-0 but he had two misses at that height and was unable to clear 6-2.
Alec Reduker '20 cleared 6-4 on his first attempt to win with Chris Washington
'20 claiming second, also clearing 6-4, but needing two attempts to do so.
Also competing for the alumni was Matt Falk '12.

With three sweeps by the Varsity, it was apparent the upset was not going to
happen, but that did not stop the alumni from competing very well.

On the track, Matt Deyo '16 gave a lesson on how to spend as little energy as
possible and still own the event.  After hanging back in the early stages of
the slow race (2:16 at the 800), Deyo moved up towards the front.  He shot to
the lead with 550 meters remaining with Kent Slaney '21 going with him.  After
a 64 third 400 by Deyo, Slaney took over with 150 meters to go.  His mistake
was that he thought he put Deyo away and did not give it everything he had.
Deyo mounted a final attack with 50 to go and shot past Slaney for the win in
4:23.45 to 4:23.65.  Logan Trimble '13 took advantage of early leader, Nate
Foss '20, giving up and coasting at the end, passing him for third in 4:33.47.

In the next race, the 60HH, there had reportedly been a fair amount of trash
talking by Michael Kaba '16 to Chris Sweeney '18 leading up to the race.
Joining the fray for the Alumni were Adrian Samsel '16 and Mizerak.  Sweeney
let his race do the talking, winning in 8.54 to 8.83 for Kaba.  Kennedy added
another third to his long jump finish, running 8.86.

The 400 offered another really close finish.  This time the Varsity won the
event.  Tyndale Hannan '20 ran 52.87 to beat Nick Diamantoni '15 by .01 for
the win.  Diamantoni had come from behind to nearly pull out the victory.  Ken
Acquah '20 ran 53.05 take third over Derek Barnes '16.

The varsity continued to bring out the youth with freshmen Benton Wilson and
Larry Qiu in the 60 Meter Dash.  Wilson won in 7.21 and Qiu was close behind
in 7.26.  Tyler Singer-Clark '14 was third in 7.35.  Also racing for the Alums
was Kaba (7.56), Kyle Hannon '13 (7.66) and Bob Williamson '59 (10.11), the
most elder competitor in the meet, and doing so at an extremely high level for
his age.

The 800 brought another opportunity where the experience of the alumni was
worth more than talent and youth of the varsity.  Simon Alford '20 took the
pace out hard, splitting 55 for the first 400.  Sam Parker '15, who won this
event last year, was biding his time back in 57.  When your open 400 on a
facility is at best a 52, going out in 55 on that same facility is probably
not the best idea.  A relaxed 56 would have made a huge difference.  Nathan
Munet '19 pulled into the lead going through the 600 mark, splitting 1:24
while Parker was still back in 1:26.  Parker passed Alford with 100 to go, and
made up 15 meters on Munet in the final 100 to win going away in 1:56.14.
Munet ran an outstanding time in 1:56.62 while Alford was third in 1:59.30.
Also competing for the alums was Marc Light '88, running 2:31.28.

The Varsity returned to dominance in the 200, placing 1-2 with Sweeney taking
first in 23.25 and Ryan Prinster '18 claiming second in 23.39.  Danny Newman
'17 took third for the Has-Beens in 23.67.  Singer-Clarke ran 23.91, Hannon
24.69, Henry Tareque '17 24.91 and Williamson running an amazing 38.35.

In the 5K, the wiser, more experienced alumni again taught the Varsity runners
a lesson in racing.  Ben Freed '18 went out at a pace that would net him a New
England Division III Championship qualifying performance of 15:30.  Deyo and
Justin Bullock '14 were more interested in the win than a time and sat back
about three seconds letting Freed do all the work.  Freed's teammates were not
interested in helping him out either, running 5:01 at the 1600 to Freed's
4:56.  At the 3200 Freed was at 9:58, still on pace, but the alums were
closing and about to take the lead.  Once they moved into the lead Freed was
unable to respond.  Deyo pulled away for his second victory, winning in
15:23.42.  Bullock took second in 15:25.84.  Freed claimed third in 15:38.10.
Others racing for the alums were Fivos Constantinou '06 in 15:56.24, Benji Xie
'15 15:59.22, Roy Wedge '14 16:10.62, Matt Jordan '15 16:13.37, Rory Beyer '17
16:38.76 and Brian Gilligan '17 16:49.36.

In the 4x200 Relay, Wilson, Gregg, Qiu and Washington raced for the victory in
1:33.49.  The alums, represented by Barnes, Parker, Samsel and Diamantoni ran
1:34.27.

Back to the field events, Billy Ruschel '18 won the Triple Jump with a leap of
48-0.  His final jump was well over 49', but a foul nevertheless.  Okeke
pulled out a second with a 44-7 1/2 jump, edging out Prinster at 44-7.

The Shot Put was another sweep by the varsity, in the same order as the Weight
Throw.  Fakkema won in 42-11 1/4, Bratten was second in 40-4 1/2 and Menio
third at 37-10 1/2.  Okeke again claimed fourth with a throw of 37-0.

The final event, the Pole Vault, was an excellent competition.  Eight alumni
participated, but were not quite able to crack into the top three.  Scott
Cameron '19 won with an impressive vault of 15-5 from a short approach.  Bobby
Upton '20 was second at 13-11 1/4 and Raja Rajcic '20 was third with the same
height.  Dan Kwon '02 was impressive, clearing 13-5 1/4, as was Marshall
Wentworth '16, also clearing 13-5 1/4.  Nate Sharpe '09, a volunteer assistant
for the varsity, cleared 12-11 1/2, as did Mizerak.  Okeke, showing his
versatility, cleared 10-11 3/4.  Ben Schreck '15 and Patrick Barragan '08, the
varsity Pole Vault coach, both no-heighted.

The final score was Varsity 92, Alumni 30.

The women's meet, predicted to be a runaway by the varsity, was much less so
than the men with the final score varsity 78, alumnae 33.

One of meet highlights was the return of Cimmy Virdi '16 (also a volunteer
assistant for the varsity) to Pole Vault competition.  The four time national
champion cleared 12-5 1/2 for an easy victory.  Jacqueline Ahrens '21 earned
second place with a vault of 11-5 3/4.  Makenzie Patarino '19 took third, also
clearing 11-5 3/4.  Demonstrating impressive depth, Kari Stromhaug '19, also
cleared 11-5 3/4 but did not score.  Jen Tylock '17 did not place, but cleared
10-11 3/4.  Also competing for the alumnae were Leah Schmitz '16, Emily Cole
'09, Joanna Chen '15 and Caroline Figgatt '11.

Natalie Alper '17, a volunteer assistant for the varsity, won the High Jump at
5-3 3/4 and had an impressive attempt at 5-5 3/4.  Preethi Vaidyanathan '15
took second place honors, also clearing 5-3 3/4.  Also competing for the
alumnae were Veronica Szklarzewski '15 and Julia Sharpe '09. Kailyn Bryk '21
took third for the varsity at 4-7 3/4.

Alper also scored in the Long Jump, taking third in 15-10 1/2, pulling out
third place on her sixth and final jump.  Haley Strouf '18 won easily in 17-8
and Jasmine Jin '20 took second in 16-10 1/2.

The alums scored big points in the throws.  Ariela Slutsky '18 won both the
Weight Throw and the Shot Put, taking the Weight with a throw of 55-1 3/4 and
the Shot Put with a toss of 38-6 1/2 as she converts from the glide to the
spin.  Jackie Vahey '17 earned second in both events for the Has-Beens,
throwing 46-2 1/2 and 38-1 respectively.  Ellen Liverpool '15 placed third in
the Weight Throw at 45-0 1/2 and Ashley Wheeler '15 took third in the Shot Put
at 30-9 1/4.

The varsity swept the final field event, the Triple Jump.  Jin claimed first
place honors at 37-3 3/4. Elizabeth Weeks '21 took second at 35-3 1/4 and Lucy
Lee '21 was third with a jump of 35-0 1/2.

On the track, Louise van den Heuvel '14 and Christina Wicker '17 schooled the
varsity with a 1-2 finish, running smart races, but very different strategies.
Katie Williams '21, somewhat inexperienced at the distance did not have the
confidence to go with van den Heuvel, who went right out running 5:00 pace.
Williams preferred running slightly behind Wicker about three seconds back at
the 400 (78).  Wicker was even giving Williams the advantage of being on the
inside as Wicker set up in the outside of lane one.  After a rather pedestrian
lap of 80, Wicker picked up the pace and Williams never challenged. van den
Heuvel won in 5:02.29 and Wicker was second in 5:09.59.  Williams took third
in 5:11.93.

There were no alumnae entries in the 60HH as Hannah Chen '18, Lee and Shea
Landeene '20 went 1-2-3 in 9.52, 9.64 and 9.79 respectively.

Alexandra Taylor '14 gave it a go in the 400 and nearly got the victory.
Instead she took second in 63.99, losing to Kristen Frombach '19 who won in
63.27.  Skylar Brooks '20 was third in 64.82.

No alums entered the 60 Meter Dash, which was won by Michelle Menkiti '20 in
8.23.  Chen was a very close second in 8.24 and Strouf was equally close in
third in 8.25.  Menkiti and Chen returned a little while later in the 200 to
place 1-2 in 26.65 and 26.78 respectively.

The 5K was also uncontested by the alumnae, which was won by Ciera Gordon '18
in 19:23.38.

The final event, the 4x200 was very competitive.  Brooks, Jin, Frombach and
Williams won by .41 seconds in 1:53.96 to Tylock, Alper, Taylor and Wicker in
1:54.37.

Those in attendance giving their support were Matt Barron '13, Marissa Engle
'15, Maryann Gong '17, George Hansen '03, Harrison Hunter '15, Michelle
Johnson '15, Eric Khatchadourian '06, Abby Klein '14, Carrington Motley '16,
Uzoma Orji '06, Sarah Quinn '16, Don Shobrys '75, Omari Stephens '08, John
Thomas '15, Sherry Wan '16 and Nicole Zeinstra '16.

The MIT team now enters their exam week before their holiday break, returning
on January 8 to tune-up for a tri-meet at Bates College with Bates and Colby
on January 13.



RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Engineers Compete Well in Victory, but Performances Lacking

January 13, 2017

The MIT Track & Field team returned to practice on January 8 after three weeks
absence due to exams and the holiday break.  On Saturday they traveled to
Lewiston, Maine to compete against host Bates College and visiting Colby
College in the team's first intercollegiate competition of the indoor season.
Entering this meet in the early season the Engineers were without many of
their top athletes due to being cautious with minor injuries and a
considerable number of non-injury related issues.  The questions facing the
team and coaches were: Could the athletes shake off the rust and compete at
the expected level, and even if they did, would the competition be enough to
bring out the performances required to be at the top of Division III teams in
New England and the NCAA?  The women are ranked #2 in the NCAA Division III
pre-season poll while the men are ranked #8.

Having never lost to either Bates or Colby in this particular competition, the
MIT team appeared pretty confident, perhaps a little over confident.  The men
dominated the competition in that they won 10 of the 17 events, winning with
100 points to 62 for Bates and 19 for Colby in the 5-3-2-1 scoring format.
The women won 12 of the 18 events, winning with a score of 106 to 53.5 for
Bates and 28.5 for Colby. Tech competed very well in most every event,
generally doing what it would take to win.  As feared, the competition was not
at a high level in most events and the Engineers did not do much to do
anything more than compete for the win.

The men's strength is in the field events, the middle-distance and distance
events and potentially the short sprints.  Between the missing athletes and
moving many of the runners to events that may not their best in order to
qualify in secondary events for the New England Division III Championship, MIT
needed for people to step up.  The event that proved the most successful for
Tech was the High Jump where they swept the event with all four jumpers
clearing 6-4.  Alec Reduker '20 and Chris Washington '20 tied for the win
because the official did not know a jump-off was supposed to take place.
Steven Speck '20 was third and Sope Eweje '19 jumped a four inch PR to claim
fourth, showing that he stepped-up.

In four events the Engineers claimed three of the four scoring places.  In the
Pole Vault, Scott Cameron '19 led a 1-3-4 result, clearing 14-5 1/4.  Tre
Albritten '18 led a 1-2-3 result in the 200 with a 22.77 performance.
Although he did not win either event, Aidan Gilson '19 led a 2-3-4 scoring
effort in both the Mile Run and the 1000, running slow paced strategic races
with times of 4:25.06 (62 final 400) and 2:37.61 (30 final 200).

Billy Ruschel '18 was the only double winner for the men, taking both
horizontal jumps.  In the Long Jump he won with 21-4 3/4 and in the Triple
Jump, he easily dominated with 46-2.

The Engineers had five other winning efforts.  Chris Sweeney '18 dominated the
60HH in 8.78.  Ken Acquah '20 took first place honors in the 400 with a gutsy
finish in 54.04.  Simon Alford '20, dueled with teammate Nathan Munet '19,
coming out ahead in 2:00.26 to 2:00.59.  Josh Rosenkranz '19 dominated the 3K
in 8:49.13, throwing in a 65 400 split after a pedestrian 4:48 first mile, to
break the race open.  The quartet of Dylan Doblar '21, Acquah, Billy Woltz '20
and Jake Jorgensen '21 took the win in the Distance Medley Relay in 11:06.07.

The women swept the Pole Vault, which is their dominant event.  Freshman
Jacqueline Ahrens led Kari Stromhaug '19, Makenzie Patarino '19 and Kathryn
Mohr '20 with her 11-11 3/4 victory.

In both the Triple Jump and the 3K, the women claimed the first three places.
Jasmine Jin '20 led Lucy Lee '21 and Elizabeth Weeks '21 with her 35-2 1/2
triple jump.  Mary Eccles '18 led a trio of outstanding performances with her
10:20.13 PR victory.  Bailee Margolis '19 (10:38.45) and Emily Niu '21
(10:38.57) claimed second and third.

Also taking three of the scoring places, the Engineers dominated the Weight
Throw.  Ari Slutsky '18 won easily with a throw of 53-1 while Folusho Jebutu
'20 and Elise McCormack-Kuhman '20 took second and fourth respectively.
Jebutu's 45-9 1/4 throw put her #9 on the all-time MIT list.

Other winners included Haley Strouf '18 in the Long Jump, winning with 17-6.
Slutsky proved to be the only double winner on the women's team as she also
won the Shot Put with a throw of 36-6 3/4.  Hannah Chen '18 took her top
event, the 60HH in 9.45.  Skylar Brooks '20 won the 600 in 1:45.28.  Katie
Bacher '20 won the 800 in 2:22.77.  Marissa McPhillips '20 won the Mile in
5:07.41.  The quartet of Kristen Frombach '19, Jin, Bacher and McPhillips won
the 4x400 Relay with an awesome come from behind effort in 4:18.54.

Next weekend Tech travels to Maine for the final time this year, taking on
Bowdoin College, Division II Merrimack, The University of Southern Maine and
Tufts University at Bowdoin.  The Engineers are hoping the rust is off because
the competition will be significantly better in the upcoming meet.



RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

MIT Engineers Victory Without Key Athletes

January 20, 2018

Both the Men's and Women's Track & Field teams at MIT completed their regular
season schedule undefeated by winning a five-way competition on Saturday at
Bowdoin College in the Bowdoin Invitational II.  Attending teams other than
MIT and Bowdoin were Merrimack (DII), Tufts and Southern Maine.

Scoring meets in the sport of collegiate track and field are becoming more and
more rare.  Teams and programs that try and win those meets are even more
rare. There are likely many contributing factors.  Some programs simply do not
have the coaching and or facility resources to develop full teams.  Winning
regular season meets does nothing to advance a team to any form of
championships, so some prefer to focus on individual performances in the
competitive environment for that individual.  Some may not want to invest the
time it takes to recruit and develop athletes for 21 different events.  The
easier path is to focus on the few athletes a program may have who can attain
the performance standards for the various championships.  In other words,
choosing the individual versus the team aspect of the sport.  MIT is a program
whose goals are to try to win the New England Division III Championship, both
indoors and outdoors every year, as well as to place as high in the team
scoring as possible at the NCAA Division III Championship, both indoor and
outdoor.  Winning championships when a team has a large majority of the talent
is not too difficult.  However, most championships are won, particularly at
the conference and regional level by teams that know how to win.  Teams made
up of individuals who will do whatever it takes to win for their teammates
because they know their teammates will do the same will be the most difficult
to beat.  That is what MIT strives for and this meet would be great practice
at the effort necessary to pull out a win.

MIT entered this meet missing many top athletes who are a week or two away
from being competition ready.  This would be a great opportunity to see if the
less experienced would step-up and do their part to help win the meet.  For
this meet MIT's strength was in the distance events and field events for both
teams.  The women were also strong in quality if not quantity in all the
running events.  The men were missing their short sprinters and are having a
weak year in the normally strong longer sprints.

The scoring for the meet would be six in each event at 10-8-6-4-2-1. In the
early field events, Tech built up a nice lead by dominating with spectacular
performances.  Jon Fakkema '19 led a 1-3-5 finish in the Weight Throw, winning
with a toss of 53-5.  Albert Menio '20 and Cody Bratten '18 threw personal
bests at 50-0 3/4 and 47-8 1/2 respectively.

In the Pole Vault, Scott Cameron '19 won at 14-11, and was supported with
teammates placing 3-4-5-6 with Liam Ackerman '21 and Bobby Upton '20 both
jumping 14-5 1/4 and Raja Rajcic '20 and Max Hardy '21 both clearing 13-11
1/4.

The Triple Jump was not as strong, but MIT held their won with 10 points as
Billy Ruschel '18 jumped 48-2 1/2 for second and Jason Villanueva '19 jumped
45-4 for fifth.  At this point Tech had a nice lead at 51 points to 10 for
Tufts, their primary concern for the team victory.

To the track, the Mile Run was first up and MIT had a strong contingent,
although there was some fatigue entering the meet as the Engineers are in a
very high volume of work and intensity at this point of the season.  Aidan
Gilson '19 shook the fatigue off, took the lead after the halfway mark, and
needed a 62 final quarter to pull away with a 4:16.51 victory.  Josh
Rosenkranz '19 dropped down from his normal distance events and added a third
place with a personal best of 4:20.46.  At 67 to 14 this was MIT's maximum
lead.

Tufts began chipping away at the lead as the shorter events were competed.
First, the 60HH gave them a first and fifth for 12 points.  Chris Sweeney '18
competed well, taking second in a season best 8.46, just .05 out of first
place.

Now for the long sprints; in the 400, Benton Wilson '21 took on the 400 for
the first time this season.  He ran a perfect first lap, earning the break
with a 23.3 first 200. Entering the final turn he was tripped from behind,
causing him to lose control and technique.  He recovered to manage a sixth
place and Tufts was unable to score.  Due to a couple of injuries, MIT only
had one 600 runner and Ellery Rajagopal '21 was that runner.  He ran an
excellent race to claim third in 1:27.58.  Tufts added 14 points to their
total as they took first and fourth.

The 60 Meter Dash was next and Tech was missing their top two short sprinters
as one was sick and the other did not take care of a minor injury that should
have had him competing this weekend.  Tufts scored 18 points with a 1-3-5
finish to move within 24 points of the Engineers.

The remaining field events were finishing up around this time.  The final
three did not go as well as the first three, but still went in the Engineer's
favor.  The High Jump went the best for the Engineers.  Alec Reduker '20 won
the event, clearing 6-8.  Chris Washington '20 earned third at 6-4 and Steven
Speck '20 tied for sixth at 6-2.  In the Shot Put, Fakkema came through again
with a third place 47-2 1/4 PR.  Cody Bratten '18 added a sixth at 43-10 as he
tries to get back to his 45' indoor mark last year and 48' outdoor mark.  The
final field event, the Long Jump did not go as planned.  Tufts was able to win
the event with only a 22-2 1/2 performance. Ruschel placed second at 21-6 1/4
and Mac Gregg '21 took fourth at 21-3 1/2.  In the three events MIT outscored
Tufts 35 1/2 to 28, making the score 117.5 to 86.

In the 800 and 1000 Tufts scored 22 points while MIT garnered eight.  In the
800, both Simon Alford '20 and Gilson had to race out of the slow section due
to slower entry times although they were fully capable of racing with the fast
section.  Nevertheless, they placed 1-2 in the slow section, Simon earning
fourth overall in 1:58.83 and Gilson sixth in 1:59.85.  In the 1000 Alex Knapp
'19 was fifth in 2:35.19 while Kent Slaney '21 doubled back from the Mile to
place sixth in 2:36.11.  Tufts was only down by 21.5 points, 125.5 to 104.

With only the 200 left before the distance events and the two relays (4x400
Relay and 4x800 Relay), things looked safe.  Without All America, Tre
Albritten '18, who was out with sickness, Wilson was the lone representative
and he was able to place sixth in 23.08.  Tufts won the event for 10 more
points, cutting the margin to 12.5 points, the closest it would get.

Dennis Maloney '19 ran 8:32.94 from the front only to get out-kicked in the
3K.  Ben Freed '18 and Billy Woltz '20 took fourth and fifth to give MIT 14
points while Tufts was unable to score.  The 5K brought similar results.
David Walter '18 and Alex Knoedler '18 ran excellent races, trading off the
lead until the end when a Bowdoin runner took the lead.  Walter came back to
kick to the victory in 15:17.85.  Knoedler and Nicholas Waltman '18 placed
third and fourth to clinch the team victory as Tufts was only able to place
fifth.

In the 4x400, MIT put mostly middle-distance runners in, which worked well as
the quartet of Ken Acquah '20 (54.0), Gilson (52.4), Slaney (52.8) and
Rajagopal (53.7) placed fourth.  The 4x800, anchored by Alford in 1:56.5, came
from behind to win in 8:00.24. Brian Bates '20 (2:02.0), Knapp (2:02.1) and
Dylan Doblar '21 (1:59.4) were the contributing first three legs.

The final score was MIT 174.5, Tufts 132, Bowdoin 100, Merrimack 88 and USM
61.5.

The women were missing just as many, if not more stars, but had little problem
with the competition, winning 212 to 127 for Tufts, 102 for Bowdoin, 78 for
USM and 59 for Merrimack.

The star for MIT was Margaret Redfield '21 who set a freshman record in the
High Jump, clearing 5-4 1/2 to also win the event.  Overall, the MIT women won
11 of the 17 events they competed in.

The most dominant event was the Pole Vault where the Engineers claimed 19
points led by Jacqueline Ahrens '21, who cleared 11-11 3/4 for the second week
in succession.  Makenzie Patarino '19 took third at 11-5 3/4. Kathryn Mohr '20
was fifth at 10-6 and Madeleine Waller 'G and Lila Wine '21 tied for sixth at
10-0.

The most dominant performance was turned in by Mary Eccles '18 in the 5K.
Eccles took the pace out at 83 per 400 on the 200 meter flat track.  Hitting
1600 splits of 5:29, 5:32 and then 5:37 as she tired a bit at the end of the
race, although she closed in 40 seconds for a 17:18.04, the eighth fastest
time in the country for Division III.  MIT also took fourth and fifth
respectively with Emily Niu '21 and Emily Freel '21.

The 3K was also a dominant event for Tech.  Megan McCandless '20 is working
her way back to top form, taking the 3K start to finish in 10:20.19.  She was
followed by Jenna Melanson '20 taking third in 10:27.38 and Bailee Margolis
'19 claiming fourth in 10:34.86.

In addition to Redfield taking the High Jump victory, her teammates, Liana
Reilly '21 took third at 5-0 1/2 and Kailyn Bryk '21 placed fifth, clearing
4-8 3/4.

Hannah Chen '18 scored the most points for the team, totaling 28 as she won
both the 60HH (9.29) and the 400 (59.14) and then took second in the 200
(26.37).  Adding points in those events were Kristen Frombach '19, placing
fourth in the 400, and Michelle Menkiti '20 who won the 200 out of lane three
in 26.31.  Menkiti also placed fourth in the 60 in 8.08 after having run a
season best 8.07 in the trials.

Ariela Slutsky '18 and Folusho Jebutu '20 placed 1-2 in the Weight Throw.
Slutsky won in 53-1 1/2 while Jebutu threw 44-3 1/2.  Elise McCormack-Kuhman
'20 took sixth in the event for Tech.  Coming back in the Shot Put, Slutsky,
who has an injured thumb, placed fourth, throwing 35-10 3/4 from the power
position.

Elizabeth Weeks '21 had a breakthrough meet, first  earning second place in
the Triple Jump with a 36-6 1/4 leap and then jumped 16-5 in the Long Jump to
pick up sixth place.  Also in those events Jasmine Jin '20 placed third in the
Triple with a 35-9 1/2 leap and then took fifth in the Long Jump at 16-6 1/2.
Haley Strouf '18 won the Long Jump with a season best 18-3.

In the middle-distance events MIT got the job done despite a lack of depth.
Marissa McPhillips '20 did not win an event, but ran outstanding races.  In
the Mile she place third in 5:01.50 and then came back in the 1000, placing
third again in 3:03.36.  Katie Williams '21 won the 800 in a come from behind
victory, taking the race in 2:18.64.  Margaret Trautner '20 ran an outstanding
600, but ran out of gas in the final 100, taking second place in 1:40.72.
Skylar Brooks '20 added a fifth in 1:45.80.

MIT neglected not to run the 4x200 Relay and the 4x400 Relay as they chose to
use their resources differently.  However, they did race the 4x800 Relay.
Trautner led off in a solid 2:25.3, giving Brooks the lead.  Brooks ran 2:27,
losing the lead for awhile, but getting it back to hand off to Lindsey
McAllister '21 in first.  McAllister lost the lead at the end, but kept it
close in 2:34.5.  Williams took the baton and then took no prisoners as she
moved to the front, expanding her lead as she went, bringing it home in first
with a 2:21.2 anchor.

MIT has three weeks of invitationals leading up to the New England Division
III Championship on February 16-17.  Next weekend some MIT runners will
compete at the Boston University John Thomas Terrier Classic while most of the
athletes will compete at the Tufts University Branwen Smith-King Invitational.



RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

### Williams, Washington Lead New NCAA Qualifiers For MIT ****

February 25, 2018

The MIT Track & Field team took an extra day to recover from last week's New
England Division III Championships, competing today at the Boston University
Last Chance Qualifier, primarily a professional and Division I competition.
The extra day of rest seemed to pay off as numerous competitors had personal
bests, and more importantly, competed very well.

Leading the way were the 800 runners.  Katie Williams '21, already owning the
freshman records in the 600 and 1000 meter races for MIT, toed the line with
teammates Margaret Trautner '20 and Bailey Tregoning '19, all looking for a
time fast enough to make the list of the top 17 performers in NCAA Division
III.  Williams was on the inside, so she knew she had to get out or get boxed
in.  She succeeded and led the chase pack through the 200 in 32.  Trautner and
Tregoning were within striking distance with the same splits.  The pace slowed
a bit on the third 200 to 1:38 and Tregoning set up to pass.  Entering the
final 200 Tregoning went past, but Williams did not give up.  On the back
stretch Williams charged past and made a kick to the finish, running a
freshman record and the fourth fastest time in Division III at 2:12.23.
Trautner screamed home in a PR of 2:14.08, the number 15 time in Division III.
Tregoning faded due to the effects of a lingering cold, but still ran a season
best 2:14.86.

The men were up next and Simon Alford '20 and Nathan Munet '19 were both
hoping for NCAA qualifying times in the 800.  Munet went out strong, splitting
27 for the first 200.  Munet had to cut his momentum going into the second lap
as he mis-timed a pass on the inside.  He recovered quickly, but settled in
through the second lap before moving into second at the end of the quarter.
He took another 100 meters deciding whether or not to take the lead, but then
tried to bring it home.  Alford moved into second with 200 to go and took the
lead in the final 100, winning in a personal best 1:53.70.  Munet also ran a
personal indoor best, finishing third in 1:54.08.

In the Pole Vault both Makenzie Patarino '19 and Liam Ackerman '21 had
personal bests.  Patarino cleared 11-10 to come within four inches of what it
will probably take to make it to Nationals.  Jacqueline Ahrens '21 cleared
12-10 but did not have good attempts at 13-0.  Kari Stromhaug '19 cleared
12-2.  While neither PR'd, both showed they are ready to compete at Nationals
as they are ranked fourth and fifth in the country for Division III.  Ackerman
was the top male vaulter for Tech, clearing 15-3.  The freshman is approaching
teammate Scott Cameron's freshman record of 15-5 1/2.  Raja Rajcic '20 cleared
14-3 1/4.

Continuing with the field events, Chris Washington '20 rebounded from his
failure to score in last week's championship and jumped 6-9, a new personal
best, and currently 14th on the NCAA list.

In the Long Jump, Nneoma Okonkwo '18, already high on the NCAA list, moved up
a few spots to sixth by jumping 18-10.  Haley Strouf '18 did not improve on
her 12th seed on the NCAA performance chart.  Mac Gregg '21 jumped 22-5 1/2,
but was no where near the 23-6 or so it will take to make it to Nationals.

The Triple Jumpers also saw some improvement.  Jasmine Jin '20 jumped 37-8 3/4
for a new personal best.  The sophomore needs another four inches or so to
make it to Nationals.  Billy Ruschel '18, currently ranked eighth in Division
III after his 48-4 jump, joins teammate Yorai Shaoul '21 (third) on the list.
Ryan Prinster '18 had his third strong outing in a row, jumping 46-5.

In the Weight Throw, neither Ariela Slutsky '18, nor Jon Fakkema '19 had
personal bests, but both threw well.  Slutsky, currently 14th on the list,
threw 55-2 1/2 while Fakkema threw 55-5 1/2.

The 200 Meter race is one where MIT was hoping to do some damage.  While both
Michelle Menkiti '20 and Benton Wilson '21 ran indoor PR's, neither moved up
on the list significantly.  Menkiti ran 25.31, which puts her about .1 second
away from going to Nationals.  Wilson ran 22.08, which leaves him about .3
away from making the NCAA top 15.  Tre Albritten '18 also raced, but drew lane
three, giving him very little chance to improve on his 21.93 from earlier this
season.  He ran 22.21.

Chris Sweeney '18 tried to improve on his performance in the 60HH. He got out
of the blocks and to the first hurdle very well.  He just did not seem to have
the sprint speed between the hurdles as he ran 8.51, not quite his best.

The final event for the Engineers was the 3K.  Marissa McPhillips '20 and
Katie Bacher '20 were trying to hit a national qualifying performance, giving
them another option at the NCAA Division III Championship in two weeks.
Looking for 5:10 pace at the 1600, both runners nailed it right on.  Running
pretty much alone up to that point, the pair started catching some fading
runners in the fast section.  McPhillips ran a 77 and then a 79 and with 300
to go collapsed to the side of the track, unable to finish.  Bacher faded
after 2K, more than likely not having a solid racing goal to keep her engaged
when the going got tough.  She finished in 9:57.69, far from what she is
capable of running.  McPhillips is fine and ready to race at Nationals.

Next week MIT will visit Tufts University for their Final Qualifier and their
truly last opportunity to make the NCAA Division III Championship being held
in Birmingham, AL, March 9-10.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Engineers Set Personal Records at BU Season Opener

December 2, 2017

Five MIT Track & Field athletes started their Indoor Track & Field season at
the Boston University Season Opener.  Four of the five ran personal bests with
one having a reasonable chance of qualifying for the NCAA Division III Indoor
Track & Field Championship.

All five athletes were those who had just completed the Cross Country season
and wanted to have a shot at trying to qualifying for Nationals before taking
a break and getting back to building mileage for the indoor season.

First up were Marissa McPhillips '20 and Katie Bacher '20 in the 3,000 Meter
race.  In order to run at least a 9:45, which is what it generally would take
to make the top 17 in the country, accounting for the five second penalty
incurred by the banked track for the 3K, they would have to run 78 second pace
per 400 meters.  They were both in the second of three sections.  The first
section was won in 8:55 with the slowest runner finishing in 9:32.  The second
section was not going to be fast enough unless McPhillips and Bacher did the
work themselves.  After running back to back 79's, McPhillips took the lead,
moving the pace up so that they came through the 1600 in 5:13.  McPhillips
fell off the pace after 2000 meters with no one to help her, winning her
section in a personal best of 9:51.25, fourth on MIT's all-time list.
Unfortunately the performance will not be fast enough to make the national
field in March.  Bacher faded after 1600 meters, still suffering from the
asthma issues that affected her in the cross country season.

Mary Eccles '18 was next up in the 5K.  Similar to the 3K the fast section was
indeed fast, with the winner running 15:17.  The second section was also quite
fast.  Eccles, hoping to run 82 seconds per 400, had to run 79 for the first
400 just to keep from getting dropped off the back.  She was able to settle
into 82 pace in the back of the pack, coming through 5:25 for the first 1600
and 5:31 for the second 1600, running PR's for both the 3K and 3200.  The
final 1600 was slower as she was by herself for a period and could not push
the pace beyond 85 for 800 meters.  She rallied for an 83 and then a final lap
of 40 to finish in a new personal best of 17:13.95, a time that may make the
national field at the end of the season despite the nine second penalty for
the 5K.  This time also moved Eccles up to sixth on the all-time MIT list.

Both Josh Rosenkranz '19 and David Walter '18 were entered in the men's 5K for
MIT.  Rosenkranz was in the second section and Walter the third section. The
plan for Rosenkranz was to run 69 second pace with hopes of running sub 14:30
in order to be one of the top 15 in the country at the end of the season.  At
the start there was a lot of contact, causing Rosenkranz to overreact instead
of letting things sort themselves out.  He wasted quite a lot of energy doing
this that he would likely pay for dearly later in the race. Even with that the
first 400 was 71.  Rosenkranz moved up through the field to find the right
pace.  His first 1600 was 4:38 and his second 1600 a 9:18.  He tried to move
hard at the beginning of the third 1600, but soon fatigued and ended up
running a 4:41 and could finish no better than a 35 final 200 for a final time
of 14:44.45, a significant personal best and ninth on the all-time MIT list,
but not close to what would be needed to make the national field.

Walter, in the last section was hoping to get a solid pace out of his
opponents, but assumed he would be in it to try and get the win and hope for a
pretty good time in the process.  The initial pace was pretty quick at 70
seconds for the first 400 and Walter was sitting comfortably in third place.
The pace settled at 71 second pace through the first 1600, then slowed to 74
pace.  After 3200 Walter and one other runner jumped the pace to 72-73 until
Walter took the lead with 300 meters to go, dropping a 32 final 200 to win in
15:02.46, a significant PR.

Although all five will now take a break and start to build mileage for the
indoor season in February and March, the rest of the team will next host their
annual Alumni/ae Meet on 12/16.



RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

### Engineers Led by Field Events in Tufts Final Qualifier ****

March 3, 2018

For a final opportunity to qualify for and participate in the NCAA Division
III Indoor Track & Field Championship, those student-athletes with a chance to
reach those standards traveled to Tufts University for the NCAA Final
Qualifier.

MIT wasted no time in qualifying additional athletes to those who had already
secured the NCAA Division III standard, which was top 17 in each event for
women, top 15 in each event for men and top 12 in the relays for both genders.
In the Men's High Jump Alec Reduker '20 returned to competition and proceeded
to make up for lost time by clearing 6-9 1/2 on his ninth attempt in the
competition, moving him to #15 on the NCAA list.  Teammate Chris Washington
'20, who had been ranked 14th entering the competition with a 6-9 performance
the week before, was unable to clear 6-9 1/2.  He was also passed by two other
jumpers at other Final Qualifiers elsewhere in the country, moving him two
places out of qualification.  His only hope of making the field would be if
two jumpers do not enter for some reason or another.

In the Women's Long Jump, Haley Strouf '18 moved up one place on the list to
12th by improving her mark by one centimeter to 18-7.  Teammate Nneoma Okonkwo
'18 did not improve her 18-10 mark and is steady in seventh place on the list.

Ariela Slutsky '18 got her head right and competed to her potential, throwing
an MIT record 57-9 1/2 in the Weight Throw, moving all the way up to ninth on
the NCAA list.  Jon Fakkema '19 was unable to throw a better throw than
before, managing a 54-1 3/4.

Staying with the throws, Cody Bratten '18 threw a huge indoor personal best,
moving to number nine on the MIT all-time list with his 48-0 throw.

In the Women's Triple Jump, Elizabeth Weeks '21 set a freshman record for the
Engineers, jumping 37-5.  Although this was a season best it is far from
enough to qualify for next week's championship.  Jasmine Jin '20 just missed a
personal best when she jumped 37-8, also short of a qualifying mark.  Ryan
Prinster '18 jumped 45-8 1/2, failing to improve on his 46-11 1/2 best.
Neither Yorai Shaoul '21 nor Billy Ruschel '18, ranked third and ninth
respectively, jumped in this competition.

Neither Makenzie Patarino '19, nor Liam Ackerman 21 were able to improve their
marks and make the NCAA qualifying list. Patarino cleared 11-4 1/4, but was
unable to join teammates Jacqueline Ahrens '21 and Kari Stromhaug '19 who are
ranked fourth and fifth going into the championship.

The running events did not go quite as well for Tech.  To start things off,
the Men's Distance Medley Relay (DMR), entered in the meet, but not planning
on racing since they were ranked third in the country on Friday morning, woke
up to discover they were eighth on the list with yesterday's meets, and with
the talented field ahead at Tufts, could easily fall out of the top 12.
Although they were not as mentally prepared as they should have been knowing
there was a chance they would race, they needed to try to improve on their
banked track 9:54 performance.  The leadoff 1200 leg was Simon Alford '20,
having an amazing season.  Alford positioned himself right off the lead runner
and got pulled out a little fast.  The first 200 was 29.0 and the 400 59.4.
Alford runs better coming from behind, so being up front got the best of him
mentally as he fell to a 3:08.8 when all was said and done, putting his team
well out of contention.  Benton Wilson '21 ran a well-paced 400, dropping a
49.3 to move Tech up one spot.  Nathan Munet '19 ran an excellent 800, going
out hard and holding on for a 1:53.8 to bring the Engineers a bit closer.
Aidan Gilson '19 closed ground quickly, moving up to the lead pack with a
2:03.8 first 800.  However, he made the mistake of settling in once he caught
them instead of keeping up his momentum and moving past.  The slower pace took
it out of him physically and mentally as he struggled home in 4:11.6.  Tech
was passed by five teams, pushing them back to 13th on the list and out of
luck unless a team does not enter.  The women's DMR team, ranked eighth and
seemingly a solid lock on qualifying, elected not to race.

Okonkwo, still trying to get her sprinting back, entered the 60 Meter Dash and
improved her season best significantly.  Having run 8.02 entering the
competition, the senior ran 7.98 in the trials and then 7.90 in the final.

Both Wilson and Michele Menkiti '20 did well in the 200, just not well enough
to make it to Nationals.  Both drew lane four, better than lane three, but far
worse than lane six.  Wilson ran 22.40 and Menkiti 25.85 on the flat track.

The 800 was supposed to be a big event for MIT, but with Alford and Munet both
running the DMR first, neither had their best game for the open 800.  Alford
was in the fast section based on his 1:53.70 previous performance, but faded
badly after a 56 first 400.  Munet raced much better, but his 1:55.89 was not
fast enough to make the top 17 list.  Katie Williams '21, ranked fourth on the
NCAA list was not racing, but Margaret Trautner '20, ranked 15th entering the
competition was, as was Bailey Tregoning '19, ranked 23rd going into the race.
Trautner wasted energy during the race, reacting to various moves and failed
to mount her usual kick off the 1:41 600.  Her final 2:16.82 was a bit slower
than her 2:14.08 banked track performance.  Tregoning ran a perfect race
through 650 meters, then just gave up, fading to 2:20.97.  At the end of the
day, Trautner was sitting in 18th position, but with Marissa McPhillips '20
ranked ninth, but not racing the 800, Trautner is likely to get in.

Katie Bacher '20 wanted to add the Mile to her DMR repertoire and the pacer
who was supposed to go out in 2:28 would help her get that done.  What the
sophomore did not plan on was the pacer going out too fast (72.0), therefore
leaving her to lead the entire pack.  Leading got to her mentally and she
panicked after a 2:30 800, causing her to fade out of contention.

Others not racing who have qualified were McPhillips in the Mile (6th) and
possibly the 3K (20th), Gilson in both the Mile (5th) and 3K (10th) and Mary
Eccles '18 in the 5K (6th).



RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

### MIT Brings Home 12 All America Awards ****

March 10, 2018

As with most meets, the NCAA Division III Championship held at the Birmingham
Crossplex in Birmingham, Alabama brought a mixture of excellent and
disappointing performances and MIT had their share of both, although the
majority were hard fought and competitive.  When the dust had settled, the
women finished in a tie for 11th place with 19 points and the men placed 18th
with 12.5 points.

The weekend began on a high note with the Engineers earning two awards at the
Coaches' and Athletes' Banquet.  Coach Derek Rousseau was awarded the Men's
New England Region Assistant Coach of the Year for his work with the jumping
events, sending three men to Nationals and dominating the horizontal jumps in
the New England Division III Championship.  Aidan Gilson '19 earned the Elite
90 Award for the second year in a row.  The Elite 90 Award goes to the male
and female student-athlete with the highest GPA at each of the respective NCAA
Championships.  This is the ninth Elite 90 Award earned by the MIT Track &
Field / Cross Country program, which is more than any other Division III
Institution has for all sports combined.  A student-athlete can only win the
award once in an academic year regardless how many sports in which the
student-athlete participates.

Day one for MIT went reasonably well.  All the men for Tech were competing on
day two, so the first day for MIT was women only.  The Pole Vault was the
first event for the Engineers.  Jacqueline Ahrens '21 started at the opening
height of 11-3 3/4 even though she has a best of 12-11 1/2.  She was clean at
every height through 12-5 1/2, but then was shaken and could not get a solid
attempt at 12-7 1/2, placing sixth.  Kari Stromhaug '19 also came in at the
opening height.  She missed once each at 12-3 1/2 and 12-5 1/2, but also went
out at 12-7 1/2 even though she had very solid attempts where she just brushed
the bar enough to dislodge it.  She placed seventh, earning her third All
American award.

Next up for MIT was the Women's Mile Run.  Marissa McPhillips '20 elected to
race both the Mile and the DMR, giving her three potential Mile or 1600 Meter
races within 24 hours.  In the trials, the top three in each heat and the next
four fastest times would move on to the finals.  Racing in the second heat,
McPhillips knew the first section had run fairly fast with the top four
running 4:55 or faster.  She put herself in the middle of the pack and
although she reacted to moves a bit more than necessary, for the most part she
stayed out of trouble.  After a slow second quarter, splitting 2:32, the pace
started picking up again.  After a 3:46 three quarter mile split, McPhillips
started pushing the pace, eventually taking the lead to win her heat in
4:57.45.

The Women's Long Jump and Weight Throw were starting at the same time . Haley
Strouf '18 was in the first flight of the Long Jump and Nneoma Okonkwo '18 was
in the second.  Seeded 13th going into the competition, she knew she would
probably have to win her flight to have a reasonable chance of making finals.
The senior had three solid attempts, but could do no better than 17-8 1/4,
which placed her 13th, matching her seed.  Okonkwo, seeded seventh jumped well
enough to make finals in seventh place.  Jumping 18-4 1/4 on her final attempt
to move back into seventh after temporarily being bumped back to eighth.

Ariela Slutsky '18, seeded in a three-way tie for fifth based on her one great
throw last weekend (57-9 1/2), was hoping to make finals.  Both of her first
two throws were 51-8 1/2.  She fouled her third attempt, finishing in 13th
place, missing finals.

Back to the track where MIT had two entries in the 800.  In the first section
Katie Williams '21, the fourth seed had been racing better as the season
progressed, owning freshman records in the 600, 800 and 1000 meter distances.
However, the spotlight of the national championship had the freshman so
worried that she squashed her adrenaline, making everything more challenging.
Regardless, she put her best foot forward, running towards the front of the
pace in a 33 opening 200.  In the second 200 she let people go around her,
gradually slipping towards the back as her 400 split slowed to 68.  She
eventually faded out the back, finishing last in 2:18.42.  Even the best can
be affected on the brightest stages.  Margaret Trautner '20 was seeded 15th
and in the second heat.  With the top two from each heat and the next four
fastest advancing to the final, making the final would mean All American
assuming the completion of that final.  Trautner raced as if she was supposed
to be there and appeared totally unaffected by the national scene.  She moved
when necessary and slightly negative split her race, placing fourth in her
heat in a new PR of 2:13.64, sixth overall in the field to make finals.

Mary Eccles '18 was up next in the 5K.  The senior had made a few national
championships in Cross Country, Indoor Track & Field and Outdoor Track &
Field, but had never been All American.  Seeded sixth going into the race she
was more confident than ever and felt she could get the job done.  The opening
pace was insane at 35 seconds for the first 200.  Most of the field was
between 37 and 39 seconds with Eccles in the very back of the 17 competitors,
also in 39.  Staying in the back Eccles split 5:19 for the 1600 while the
leaders were starting to break away at 5:15.  Eccles slowly started moving up
in the field, splitting 10:48 for 3200 meters, she was in seventh place, 11
seconds off the front and seven seconds down from sixth place.  Eccles slowed
to a 5:36 third 1600, but was closing fast on fifth and sixth place, who were
paying for the early aggressive pace.  In the final lap she could not make up
the ground, finishing in seventh place in 17:04.46, two seconds back from
fifth place, earning her first All America award.

The final race of day one was the Women's DMR.  The foursome of Katie Bacher
'20, Hannah Chen '18, Bailey Tregoning '19 and McPhillips was seeded eighth,
but knew if they raced well they could place higher.  Bacher led off with the
1200 leg.  She put herself in the middle of the 12 team final, slowly moving
up as she split 70 for the first quarter.  After a 36 third 200 the sophomore
moved towards the front, chasing after the leader from Otterbein College.
Coming through 2:21 for the 800, Bacher separated herself from the main pack
and was closing in on the leader.  At the handoff to Chen, Bacher had gotten
to within 10 meters of the lead with a phenomenal split of 3:32.7.  Chen took
the baton and did her job well.  She split 26.8 and closed well to take the
lead in 56.9.  Bailey Tregoning '19 has an unfortunate habit of taking off too
fast, particularly in relays.  Even with understanding that in this scenario
she wanted to hit 33 second pace for each 200, the junior again erred, running
29 for the first 200 and 62.0 for the 400.  She managed a 35 third 200 as the
field started closing down on the 50 meter lead she had developed.  The final
200 was painful to watch, although she managed to split 2:17.8, handing off in
second place.  McPhillips went with the leader from WashU, but was quickly
passed by Sarah Kelley '18 from Bowdoin.  McPhillips had no choice but to go
with Kelley who was laying down a torrid pace.  After splitting 71 and 2:23,
the duo had totally separated from the rest of the field.  McPhillips was
gapped just slightly after splitting 3:37 for 1200 meters, but was still in
striking distance with 200 to go.  That is when the wheels started to fall off
the bus, particularly in the final 50.  Kelley split 4:47 to carry Bowdoin to
the win, and McPhillips still split a remarkable 4:55, but was passed by two
teams right at the finish to earn fourth place, well ahead of their seed.
Their total time was 11:43.54.  At the end of the first day the women were in
fourth place with 14 points.

The Men's Triple Jump was the first event on day two and MIT had two jumpers,
Yorai Shaoul '21 seeded third and Billy Ruschel '18 seeded ninth.  With only
15 jumpers they went with one flight.  Shaoul had an excellent series in the
trials, starting off with a season best, improving each round, putting himself
into second with a jump of 50-01 1/4 for a new PR and MIT record, one
centimeter out of first place.  Ruschel jumped a personal best of 48-9 on his
second attempt to move him into third place in the trials.  In the finals
Shaoul fouled twice and then did not improve his mark on his final attempt.
Ruschel was passed twice in the final round and could not improve his mark.
Shaoul earning second and Ruschel fifth giving the men a nice 12 point start.

McPhillips was back for the Mile Run finals.  She positioned herself well as
the entire field went out fast.  A lead pack of three were out in 70 and the
trail pack that included McPhillips went out in 72.  Due to the oxygen debt
incurred the night before McPhillips would not likely survive a fast pace.
Miraculously, the trail pack conceded to the leaders and slowed to 2:31.
After another slow lap McPhillips moved towards the front of the trail pack
and started pushing the pace.  She dropped a 70 final quarter to finish in
fifth in 4:58.76.

Margaret Trautner was hoping to do similar damage in the 800.  With Emily
Richards '18 from Ohio Northern winning the Mile and returning to the 800
final as the favorite with the 3K yet to come it was suspected the 800 would
also be strategic.  Like the Mile final earlier, Richards took the pace out.
Trautner was in excellent position at the 200, but started falling back
towards the end of the 400 where she split 65.  She did not believe in herself
and gradually fell off the back, exactly the opposite of how she reacted in
the trials.  Nevertheless, she earned All American with her 2:17.47 eighth
place finish.

Alec Reduker '20 was the fifteenth and final seed in the High Jump.  Despite
an inconsistent approach the sophomore cleared 6-3 1/2 and 6-5 1/2 on first
attempts. He then cleared 6-7 1/2 on his second attempt.  Clearing 6-9 on his
third attempt gave him a tie for eighth place and his first All America award.

The final competitor for Tech was Aidan Gilson '19 in the 3K.  Gilson was
primed and prepared to own the 3K despite his 10th place seed.  The junior was
a higher seed in the Mile, but felt more confident in the 3K, so focused on
that event.  Gilson positioned himself well, sitting right off of the lead
through a pretty casual 4:31 first 1600.  Continuing with 67 pace Gilson
started looking as if he doubted himself.  Somewhere along the way, the mental
doubts overcame the physical ability and he went out the back in the final 600
meters, finishing in 8:29.69.

The women finished in a tie for 11th place with 19 points and the men placed
18th with 12.5 points.  A total of nine All America awards for the women and
three for the men was an impressive finish for a total of 16 athletes.
Overall, a successful outing for the Engineers.



RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Despite Phenomenal Performances MIT Fails to Win NED3 Championships

February 17, 2018

The dictionary defines failure as a lack of success, the omission of expected
action.  There is a prevailing thought that failure is a temporary state for
those who strive for success; an opportunity to reflect on what went well and
what needs to be corrected, and then moving on.  For many, indeed, most
successful individuals, failure is embraced as an obvious step in the process
to be successful, whether that is in athletic competition or in life.
However, for some, more than one might think, failure constitutes a paralyzing
fear.  Some even try to prove to themselves why they will fail, focusing on
reasons why they will fail even when logic dictates they should succeed.
Failure is safe.  One does not have to put forth a maximum effort because
failure is expected and accepted.

The MIT Men's and Women's Track & Field teams lost their respective New
England Division III (NED3) Championships yesterday; the women finishing
second to Williams College in a meet predicted to be a toss up between the two
rivals, and the men were runners-up to Tufts University after being favored to
win.  Williams and Tufts competed better, wanted it more and focused on what
they needed to do rather than what they could not do.

Both MIT teams, despite some truly amazing performances, found enough ways to
fail to allow the championship to slip through their fingers.  Coach Halston
Taylor failed to prepare his teams to get past the fear of failure, failed to
motivate those who found it easier to not fight for every position and every
point, failed to get those who focus on what is going on in their head to
instead focus on the competition, and even in at least one case, failed to
provide the proper race strategy.  With that said, the outstanding
performances by many of the Engineers nearly overcame it all.

The women had won three consecutive NED3 titles and the men, while losing last
year, also to Tufts, had won the previous three years.  The women's
competition was held at Springfield College.  The night before Williams
College dominated the Pentathlon, scoring 22 points, one less than expected.
MIT knew they would have to counter early in the meet because Williams was
favored to score 24 in the High Jump.  MIT did indeed counter, and did so in a
slightly unexpected way.  MIT was seeded to score 14 points in the Long Jump
to 13 for Williams.  Haley Strouf '18 and Nneoma Okonkwo '18 placed first and
second respectively with season bests of 18-6 1/2 and 18-5 3/4 for 18 points.
Williams still scored 12 points, but that was a five point swing for MIT.

Williams did indeed place 1-2-3 in the High Jump.  The Engineers lost a point
when Margaret Redfield '21 finished in a three-way tie for fifth with a jump
of 5-3 instead of securing sole possession of fifth place.

Back on the positive side, Jacqueline Ahrens '21 continued to amaze as she won
the Pole Vault competition with yet another MIT freshman record, and tied the
NED3 record of 12-11 1/2 owned by her coach, Cimmy Virdi.  Teammates Kari
Stromhaug '19 (12-9 1/2) and Makenzie Patarino '19 (11-7 3/4) placed second
and sixth for a total of 21 points, one more than they were seeded while
Williams took one less than their seed.

On the track the Distance Medley Relay and 5K, the two first finals of the
day, were supposed to be big for MIT.  In the DMR, Margaret Trautner '20
opened up with a 3:40 in the 1200 leg to give MIT a nice lead.  Kristen
Frombach '19 held that lead with a season best 60.7 for the 400 leg.  Bailey
Tregoning '19 cruised to a 2:18 800, expanding the lead to handoff to Katie
Bacher '20 for the 1600 anchor.  Bacher ran relaxed through an even paced 3:46
1200, before shutting it down in the final quarter to run a 5:05, giving MIT a
four second victory over second place Williams, which gave the Ephs four
points more than they were seeded to get.

In the 5K, Talia Ruxin '20 from Middlebury took out the pace ridiculously fast
at 38 seconds for the first 200.  Mary Eccles '18 went right with her with
Megan McCandless '20 just a few meters behind.  MIT was seeded for 17 points
with Eccles winning, McCandless for third and Jenna Melanson '20 seeded
eighth.  Williams was seeded for 10.  Ruxin continued to push the pace through
the first mile although not at sub 80 pace.  Eccles passed the 1600 at 5:26
and looked great.  McCandless passed through in 5:33 and was looking gassed.
Melanson had started at 85 pace and was reaping the benefits as she was moving
up well in the field.  At 2K the pace slowed to 84, which was the magic number
for Eccles, so she moved into the lead, not only to stay on NCAA qualifying
pace, but threw down a 79 to eliminate Ruxin from contention.  McCandless
started falling out of the back while Melanson continued to move up, now in
fifth.  The 3200 was 10:51 for Eccles and 11:30 for Melanson while McCandless
dropped to a 5:58 second 1600, now one second behind Melanson.  Two Williams
runners were coming up on Melanson and as soon as they caught her Melanson
dropped to 88 second pace, eventually falling out of the scoring.  Eccles
continued to hammer away, only slowing slightly to a 5:30 third 1600 to finish
in a personal best 17:02.65, moving into the top five performances in the
country for Division III.  The bottom line from a team perspective is that MIT
lost seven expected points and Williams gained one.

The Triple Jump was a big positive for Tech.  Jasmine Jin '20 jumped 37-5 on
her second attempt to move into second place.  Elizabeth Weeks '21 jumped 36-1
1/4 to make finals and then jumped a season best 36-10 1/4 on her final
attempt to move into fifth place. MIT's 12 points were seven more than
expected and Williams only secured one point when they were seeded for eight.
Overall this was a 14 point swing, one which MIT needed desperately.

Ariela Slutsky '18 seeded second in the Weight Throw only managed third even
though she threw 54-10 3/4.  Not able to throw or practice the Shot Put for
weeks due to a thumb injury, the senior gave it her best effort but was unable
to score in that event.

The Mile was the next big race for MIT on the track.  Marissa McPhillips '21
represented MIT as the second seed at 4:58.  The pace was crisp as McPhillips
positioned herself well with splits of 74, 2:27 and 3:40 before trying to move
into first.  She was able to move around to second, but could not close the
ground on first as she took second in a personal best of 4:55.42.

Hannah Chen '18, hoping to make the finals in the 60HH was unable to do so
despite her 9.23 effort.  In the 400, seeded second, Chen got left behind in
the first 200.  She tried to make up the difference in the second lap but was
unable to catch anyone, finishing fifth in 58.68.

Katie Williams '21 would have been the top seed in the 1000, but already
having the top three seeds, Coach Taylor elected to put Williams in the 600,
thinking she could steal some points by placing higher than her fifth seed.
The freshman got out well in a high 31, although in the back of the pack.
Knowing the front runners went out too fast Williams should have moved up
easily to position herself for the win.  However, she ran tight did not plan
her moves well and had to move out to lane three in the final straight.
Regardless, she earned her fifth place and set an MIT freshman record of
1:38.51 in the process.

Tregoning, seeded fourth, returned in the 800 to see if she could defend her
title from last year.  An early season injury had kept Tregoning from gaining
the necessary base and has forced her to try to catch up in the late season.
She positioned herself well, although she lost momentum twice due to a lot of
contact by others in the race.  In the final 400 she could only manage a 71,
placing fourth in 2:18.89.

As mentioned, MIT was seeded for 24 points in the 1000, with all three runners
returning from either the DMR or Mile.  Because the field was so big with 11
runners, the correct strategy would have been for the heavy favorites to take
the lead and push the pace, making for less contact and saving energy by not
having to move up through the field.  Instead Coach Taylor thought others
doing the work would benefit MIT as long as the pace did not slow to 37 200's
without MIT taking the lead and pulling away.  Well, the pace started at 37
and MIT was unable to get to the front.  Finally, Bacher was able to move to
the front with 300 to go and pulled away for victory in 2:59.04.  McPhillips,
looking a bit gassed, still managed a 2:30.57 for fourth place, but Trautner,
went out the back in 3:05.93.  The nine point loss was devastating to the
team's hopes of winning the championship.

Although Michelle Menkiti '20 ran 26.28 for sixth place in the 200, she had to
do so out of lane four.  Success in the 200 is largely a factor of which lane
you receive, with lane six being the preferred lane due to less forces applied
to the legs and running less of the first turn.  Chen had even less luck as
she drew lane three, preventing her from placing.  Scoring three points when
seeded for nine pretty much sealed MIT's fate.

The only hope remaining to get MIT close was the 3K.  MIT was coming back with
their 5K runners and a fresh Bailee Margolis '19.  Eccles, knowing her legs
would be heavy for the first mile, eased into the race, moving from the back,
gradually sliding up to fourth place in a personal best 10:14.40.  Melanson
rebounded nicely to take sixth in 10:29.45.  This gave MIT a slim chance as
they were now only four points down to Williams with the 4x400 and 4x800
remaining.

The Engineers did not have a 4x400 to speak of, but were putting together the
best team they could.  MIT felt sure they could win the 4x800, but also were
sure that Williams would place right behind them.  They had to hope for a
dropped baton or something similar in order to pull out the victory.  However,
despite a valiant effort, the quartet of Chen, Frombach, Skylar Brooks '20 and
Tregoning were not able to score with a 4:06.19 while Williams earned second
place to pull out to a 12 point lead.

With the meet mathematically over, MIT scratched the 4x800 to start saving the
legs for Nationals.  Having not lost a New England Division III title in Cross
Country, Indoor or Outdoor Track and Field since the Fall of 2015, it will be
interesting to see if the Engineers can bounce back.  Is failure truly a
temporary state?  We will find out in less than three months when MIT hosts
the Outdoor NED3 Championship.

MIT entered the men's meet as favorites.  Even if you consider the relays are
at the end of the meet with everyone pretty fatigued, meaning MIT's number one
seed in the DMR and 4x800 may fall short, still would put Tech as slight
favorites over Tufts.

In the first events, the Long Jump and Weight Throw, things were going
according to plan.  Jon Fakkema '19 lost one expected point even though he
came within a quarter of an inch of his personal best with a fifth place throw
of 56-4.  The jumpers then made up four points by scoring 12 when seeded for
only eight. Mac Gregg '21 earned second place with a jump of 21-9 1/2 and
Yorai Shaoul '21 placed fifth with a jump of 21-4 1/4.  For some reason no one
was jumping very far in the Long Jump event. MIT was up on Tufts 16 to 2.

With the conclusion of the Heptathlon, Tufts managed to score seven points
while MIT had no entries.

In the 60HH trials, Chris Sweeney '18, seeded second, had been sick with
either the stomach bug or food poisoning and was still feeling the effects.
This affected him physically and mentally, which resulted in not qualifying
for the finals, a loss of eight big points and the loss of a second leg of the
4x400 relay in as many days.  The day before, Tre Albritten '18 a number two
seed in the 200 and a sub 50 relay leg was scratched due to an upper
respiratory infection.  In addition, Tufts won the event after only being
expected to place third.  The 12 point swing more than wiped out the earlier
gain and seemed to affect some of the MIT team.  The score was now 19 to 16 in
Tufts favor.

In the first running final, the Mile run, MIT was represented by the number
one seed, Aidan Gilson '19.  The thought was that this would be a strategic
race since it was such a loaded field and no one was likely willing to expose
themselves.  Gilson put himself in a pretty good position, but off of a 3:13.5
1200 split was jumped by Springfield's Jack Pinho '18 and could not close the
gap, earning second in 4:14.80.  MIT lost two expected points, but Tufts lost
three--score 24 to 19.

The High Jump was potentially a big event for MIT as they were represented by
three entries, with Chris Washington '20 seeded to place fourth.  Tufts placed
second in the event for eight points and Washington failed to score.  Tufts
was now up by three.

MIT had no entries in the 400 or 600, which is difficult to believe given
their rich history in those events.  Tufts, seeded for 15 in the 600, pulled
out 17, making the score Tufts 44, MIT 24.

In the 60, Tufts was seeded for five points, but earned six.  Likewise, in the
Shot Put, while Cody Bratten '18 threw an indoor best of 46-3 1/2 to steal two
points, Tufts placed third, a three point gain over their seed.  Tufts was now
ahead by 30.

Simon Alford '20 came through big for the Engineers.  The number one seed in
the 1000 did just that, placing first with a well run 2:30.20 come from behind
victory.  Nathan Munet '19 was unable to score in the 800, but was not seeded
to do so.  He did place ninth in 1:56.60, perhaps waiting a little too long to
make his move.  Tufts was seeded for 22 points in the two events, but managed
18, putting MIT down by 38, 74 to 36.

The remaining field events, the Triple Jump and Pole Vault were supposed to be
big MIT events, seeded for 19 in the TJ and 12 in the PV while Tufts was
seeded for eight points.  Tufts got their eight in the Pole Vault but MIT did
not get their 12.  Liam Ackerman '21 more than came through, clearing a PR of
15-1 1/2 for fourth place.  Bobby Upton '20 had his best meet of the season,
clearing 14-9 1/2 to place seventh.  Scott Cameron '19, the defending champion
and Raja Rajcic '20, both expected to score, both cleared 14-3 1/2 but were
unable to place.  The Triple Jump was the premiere event for MIT.  Shaoul took
the lead on his first jump, and proceeded to jump an MIT best 48-7 1/4 to win
the event and improve his freshman record.  Billy Ruschel '18, seeded second
in the event, nearly fouled out after missing his first two jumps, but then
leaped into second place on his third attempt, eventually jumping 47-7.  Ryan
Prinster '18 jumped over 46' for the second week in succession, placing fourth
with a 46-3 1/2 performance.  The 23 points exceeded their expectation, but
Tufts was still up 82 to 66.

Benton Wilson '21 placed second in the 200 with a 22.33 effort, an excellent
flat track performance.  Tufts scored 13, placing first and sixth, stretching
their lead 95 to 74

The distance events and relays were all that was left and MIT was seeded to do
well so there was still a chance, but not a good one.  Gilson was again seeded
first in the 3K, but although he was having an amazing season, he was not
accustomed to doubling in such a meet and profiled as the top runner.
Apparently he did not believe he could win because once the pace picked up
after the Mile it was obvious he was not owning the race.  Billy Woltz '20,
also capable of placing high, is not capable of just racing and going for the
win, and did not prepare himself mentally for what he needed to do.  Gilson
earned seventh and Woltz eighth to give MIT three points.  Josh Rosenkranz '19
and David Walter '18 raced well in the 5K and either was capable of winning,
but neither made the move that could have gotten the job done.  They did earn
second and fourth, running 15:06.28 and 15:10.10 in a sit and kick race.
Tufts scored in neither race making the score 95 to 90.

The DMR was first among the relays and MIT had three fourths of their squad
totally fresh. Dylan Doblar '21, having run a 4:19 mile earlier in the season
was the 1200 leg.  He did not appear to race it like a time trial but more
like an actual race.  There appeared to be no confidence or ownership as he
lost places and time, finishing in 3:12.  The handoff went very poorly between
Doblar and Ken Acquah '20, which lost more time.  Acquah panicked and went out
too hard trying to make up the difference.  Although he split a 25 first 200
he finished in 55.  Brian Bates '20, coming back from a non-placing effort in
the Mile, split a 2:02 800 leg after going out in 60 for the first 400.  Kent
Slaney '21 having run 4:19 last week at Boston University was ready to get the
job done, but he was too far back.  He caught the Tufts runner but the next
four were between seven and 10 seconds in front even after a 4:21 leg.  The
10:31.89 was good for fifth place, making up one point on Tufts who placed
sixth.

In the 4x400 with too sub 50 legs out with illness, two brave and game jumpers
took their place.  Gregg, Washington, Wilson and Prinster ran 3:30.69 but
could not score.  Tufts earned four points with a fifth place finish for an
eight point lead.

The 4x800 would have to win and hope Tufts did no better than seventh place in
order to secure a tie. Munet led off and for some reason did not go out to
give the team a lead, instead running just under 30 second pace when he should
have been running 28's.  His 1:58 leg was not the setup the unit needed.
Ellery Rajagopal '21 ran a solid leg, but was supposed to get the baton far
ahead.  Instead he lost ground as the other teams caught up despite his 2:00.
Gilson was definitely tired, but there was no one else available.  He gave it
his best but 2:00 was not good enough.  Alford went our too hard, splitting 56
at the 400 and then faded badly to 2:00, giving the team a 7:59.72 for sixth
place.  Tufts placed second to seal the well deserved victory.  The final
score was Tufts 110, MIT 97.

From this point on for the Engineers it is all about the NCAA Division III
Championship in three weeks.  Currently, the women have a solid DMR, Eccles in
the 5K, Ahrens and Stromhaug in the Pole Vault and possibly Strouf and Okonkwo
in the Long Jump and Ariela Slutsky in the Weight Throw.  The men have a
pretty good shot at a DMR and Gilson in the Mile and 3K along with Shaoul and
Ruschel in the Triple Jump.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

### Williams Sets MIT Record, Setting the Tone For Outstanding Team
Performances



January 27, 2018

In the first of three weekends where MIT's Track & Field team will split their
squad between two venues, those seeking fast oval times participated in the
Boston University John Thomas Terrier Invitational, with the women competing
on Friday and the men on Saturday on what is arguably the fastest indoor track
in the country.  Those competing in the field events, sprints and hurdles
competed at Tufts University in the Branwen King-Smith Invitational.

The 800 runners got things going for MIT.  Bailey Tregoning '19, in her first
race this year, tested the waters cautiously especially since the entire
field, with the exception of Tregoning, was sub 32 at the 200.  She gradually
moved up in the race, looking comfortable the entire way as she finished in a
solid 2:16.13.  Margaret Trautner '20, in her second meet of the year and
first 800 was also running with caution in her section as she went out in 33
high and 68 for the first two laps.  In the final 400 she moved up, but waited
a little too long to pull out a section victory.  However, she did run an
excellent 2:17.28.

In the 400 Hannah Chen '18 ran her first banked track 400 of the year.  The
senior got out well, splitting 27.7 for the opening 200.  In the second lap
she raced well, finishing in 57.53, easily her best race of the season.

Katie Williams '21, having run a 2:59 1000 on a flat track at Bates College,
was ready to test her skills on the banked track.  Sitting in the very back of
the pack she still came through the first 200 in 32.9.  As things settled the
pace became more realistic.  After splitting 2:21 for 800 meters the freshman
went after the field, nearly reeling them all in as she set a personal record
of 2:54.97, which was also a new MIT Freshman and Varsity record.

Michelle Menkiti '20 joined Chen in the 200.  Menkiti was given lane five,
which would make the turns much easier and she took advantage of it, running
25.55, her personal best indoors.  Chen did not fair so well, getting lane 1,
a death sentence in the 200.  Nevertheless she matched her time of 26.37 from
last week.

The Engineers entered the distance events in the evening, having two entries
in the 3K and two in the 5K.  All four were placed in sections a little too
fast for what they were prepared to run.  Melissa McPhillips '20 was first up
for Tech.  Wanting to run 77-78 pace per 400, even at the back of her section
she ran 74 at the 400 and 2:31 at the 800.  She looked strong at 5:07 for
1600, but then she was unable to run faster than 81-82 pace the rest of the
way as the early fast pace made her pay.  McPhillips finished in 9:53.07, but
it was clear that a more reasonable pace early on would help her secure a low
9:40 performance.  Emily Niu '21, also in the back of her section, was right
on pace for what she wanted, splitting 81 and 2:42, but then it seemed she
forgot to race.  Nevertheless the freshman was still in good shape with a 5:30
1600 split, but then she slowed significantly, falling off the back to finish
in 10:44.71.

Megan McCandless '20, in her first 5K of the season, was also in a section a
little over her head currently.  Wanting to run 83 pace, even 10 meters off
the back of the pack she ran 81 for the first 400.  At the 1600, still well
off the back, she was comfortable in 5:28 and ran 83's through the next 1200
meters before falling off to 86 as she hit 11:03 for 3200 meters.  The final
1800 she gradually slowed from 86 to 88 pace, finishing in 17:37.90.  The
sophomore is returning well from injury, improving quickly in the young
season.  Jenna Melanson '20, an All American in the Steeplechase outdoors in
her freshman year, was also taking on her first 5K of the season.  She was
hoping to run 84's, but again, the section was a little fast, plus she went
out with some of the back runners, splitting 81 for the first 400.  She got
back on schedule very quickly and came through the 1600 in 5:33.  After 2400
meters Melanson started to lose contact when she looked and seemed perfectly
comfortable and in contact with the back of the pack.  She is certainly
capable of this pace as her 10:43 Steeplechase proves.  Her 3200 split was
11:18 and 4800 split a 15:52.  Her 18:12.10 was a personal best, but she is
capable of mid 17's at the very least.

On Saturday, the men started things off with Nathan Munet '19 in the 800.  The
junior got out well in the back of the pack.  The entire race he was planning
his moves too late, waiting until the turn to decide to move.  Munet had to
cut his momentum three different times on poorly planned passes.  In the final
150 he moved well, passing most of the field to finish in a season best
1:56.04.

Benton Wilson '21 was running just his second indoor 400 ever, and his first
on a banked track.  Starting in lane six, the freshman had no one to chase.
Being cautious by nature, his first 200 was too slow, as three passed him on
the second turn.  Wilson split 24.5 moving into fourth at the break.  Even in
the final lap he waited too long to move, finishing pretty fresh in 50.24.

In the 1000 Meter Run, Simon Alford '20 was supposed to settle in the back and
look for his opportunities to move up.  Being the second fastest section the
pace was bound to be fast.  Instead the sophomore blasted out in the first 150
before settling in, but some damage was done as he still split 28.9.  For some
reason he was not content to sit and let things develop, instead moving in and
out of lane one as he looked for openings to move up.  After exchanging places
in the back a couple of times and spending a significant amount of time in
lane two, Alford unleashed an exceptional final 200 to run 2:28.77, tenth on
MIT all-time list.

In the 200, Tre Albritten '18, coming off an illness, was certainly lacking
some fitness, but his competitive attitude was solid.  Albritten ran 22.08 in
the 200.  A few sections later, Wilson was back from the 400, finishing in
22.15.

Two freshmen, Dylan Doblar and Kent Slaney were up in the Mile.  Doblar was in
the slower section and was one of the higher seeds, so he knew he had a shot
at winning the section.  The pace was quick initially as he split a 62 first
400 and was not near the lead.  The pace slowed, as did Doblar, splitting 2:08
and 3:13 as he moved towards the front.  With 200 to go he had moved into
second and with 100 to go took the lead.  The runner came back on him but
Doblar held him off to win in 4:19.33.  Slaney, sick the latter half of the
week was still feeling the effects of his cold in the race.  The pace of his
section, even though it was a faster section, started much slower.  Running a
64 Slaney was in fifth through the first 400.  He reacted to too many moves,
never seeming to be patient in letting the race play out.  By the time the
field moved, Slaney was out of it.  He woke up to kick the final 150 to finish
in 4:24.39.

The final event at BU for MIT was the 3K.  Aidan Gilson '19, Dennis Maloney
'19 and Alex Knapp '19 were all representing MIT.  Gilson and Maloney were in
the same section and Knapp in a slower one.  The pace Gilson and Maloney were
looking for was 66 per 400, while Knapp was looking to run 68's.  Racing in a
fast section certainly helped as running 66 was exactly what was happening at
the back of the pack.  Through 1600 meters Gilson was 4:23 and Maloney 4:24.
As the pack separated and the back of the pack slowed, Gilson and Maloney
moved up gradually.  After 2000 meters it was clear that both Gilson and
Maloney were tiring, but both were still competing well.  Running 2:16 from
2000 to 2800 meters put a dent in their bid to qualify for nationals, but
finishing in 32 gave them a chance.  Gilson ran a personal best 8:17.03 and
Maloney an 8:18.44.  Knapp fell into a similar pattern of running in the back
and letting the pack do the work for him.  He was not able to hold 68 flat
pace, but was pretty close, coming through the 1600 at 4:35.  He slowed
slightly but held pace, never running slower than 70 second pace until the
final lap.  His final time of 8:41.13 was a personal best.

Meanwhile at Tufts, some pretty special performances were going on.  Chris
Washington '20 became the second MIT jumper to clear 6-8 in the High Jump this
season, joining Alec Reduker '20, who accomplished the feat last week.

Jon Fakkema '19, improving weekly, threw 56-4 1/2 to claim second place in the
Weight Throw.  He also threw well in the Shot Put, throwing 47-0 3/4.  Cody
Bratten '18 and Albert Menio '20 also threw well, putting the shot 44-7 and
40-2 respectively.

Yorai Shaoul '21, out for the past month with a heel bruise, showed some of
his talent as he only attempted three jumps in the Triple Jump and all of them
were over 14 meters.  His winning effort was 48-1 3/4.  Jason Villanueva '19
also jumped a season best at 45-5.  Ryan Prinster '18, also out for the past
few weeks, jumped 44-5 1/2.

On the track Ellery Rajagopal '21 ran a flat track personal best of 1:26.96 in
the 600 as he continues to improve.  Ben Freed '18 ran a New England Division
III qualifying time in the 5K with his 15:24.48 performance.

The Women's Long Jump was an exceptional event for MIT.  Haley Strouf '18
jumped 18-3 1/4 to win with a season best.  Tema Nwana '21, fresh off of her
second concussion, jumped a personal best of 17-3 1/2.  Also making solid
jumps were Elizabeth Weeks '21, jumping 16-3 1/4 and Jasmine Jin '20 at 16-2
1/4.

The Weight Throw was also a key event for Tech.  Ari Slutsky '18 won the event
with a throw of 54-1.  Folusho Jebutu '20 threw a PR of 46-11 and Elise
McCormack-Kuhman also threw a personal best of 39-6 1/2.

With only three weeks until the New England Division III Championships, MIT
will continue to seek qualifying performances for those not qualified and fast
section marks for those who have qualified.  Some field event competitors will
travel to the NEICAAA Championship at the Reggie Lewis track while most of the
team will compete at the Tufts University Cupid Challenge next weekend.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

# Championship Qualifying Performances are the Theme for MIT



February 3, 2018

With just two weeks before the New England Division III Championships and five
weeks before the NCAA Division III Championships there was a sense of urgency
amongst the MIT Track & Field athletes for the former and an eye on what the
fields are looking like for the latter.

Once again MIT split their squads between two meets, sending some field event
athletes to Reggie Lewis for the NEICAAA Championship and the rest to the
Tufts University Cupid Challenge.  The NEICAAA Championship, termed the All
New Englands because the championship is for all the college track and field
teams in New England, regardless of division.  Due to various conference
championships, mostly among the Division I colleges, the date of the meet was
moved to this early weekend in February.  More significant was the fact the
meet was moved from the Boston University track to the Reggie Lewis Center.
While both tracks are banked, the BU track is significantly more banked, and
faster than Reggie Lewis.  The NCAA applies the same penalty to all banked or
over-sized (>200 meters) tracks, regardless of the degree of the bank.  That
penalty, ~3.2 seconds for the Mile and 9 seconds for the 5K, is arguably worth
it at BU, but not at Reggie Lewis.  Thus, many Division III teams who tend to
have more national level athletes than their New England Division I
counterparts, elected to use the flat tracks in the area, particularly since
the Tufts University meet was using pacers in most of their races.

Things started off quite well for MIT on Friday evening at Reggie Lewis. Haley
Strouf '18 jumped a season best 18-5 in the Long Jump, having an exceptional
series, although she did not make the finals, finishing in 12th place.  Strouf
is currently seventh on the NCAA list.  In the women's Pole Vault, Jacqueline
Ahrens '21 set the MIT freshman record as she jumped a national qualifying
12-3 1/2, tying her for fourth on that list.  Kari Stromhaug '19 also cleared
12-3 1/2.  The pair placed fourth and fifth respectively.  Makenzie Patarino
'19 cleared a personal best 11-11 3/4, making the MIT top 10 pole vault list.

On Saturday, of significance was the men's High Jump.  Both Alec Reduker '20
and Chris Washington '20 cleared 6-8 1/4, a season best for Reduker and a
personal best for Washington, placing them sixth and seventh respectively.
Both are tied for 13th on the NCAA list.

Over at Tufts the competition was fantastic and the pacers were doing a great
job.  The 5K's were early on the schedule and even though Mary Eccles '18 did
not run her season best she did run a great race. The pacer set up a pace that
was a little too fast at 81 pace.  Eccles was trying to run her race, but the
1600 was still too fast at 5:28.  After the pacer left the track things got on
83 pace, putting Eccles at 11:01 for 3200 meters.  She certainly fatigued in
the final 1600, running 5:39 and finishing in 17:20.31.  She is currently 10th
on the NCAA list.  On the men's side, while Dennis Maloney '19 ran a solid
14:46.86, Alex Knoedler '18 and Nicholas Waltman '18 ran New England Division
III qualifying times of 15:23.52 and 15:27.59.

The event of the day was definitely the Mile Run for MIT.  In the men's race,
a very high quality field was out to qualify for Nationals.  Aidan Gilson '19
was representing MIT and looking to win the race as he makes the transition to
a national level runner who is trying to win races, not just run in them.
Gilson settled into the pace as the pace setter led the group through 61 and
2:04 quarters.  Unfortunately the pace slowed dramatically to 3:09, but Gilson
used this prepare for his kick.  During the seventh lap it initially looked as
though he had given up as the pace picked up.  However, coming out of the
final turn he took the lead and held it for the final 200, winning in 4:11.03,
the third fastest time in the country, a banked track equivalent of 4:07.87,
easily fast enough to get him into Nationals and the top time in New England.
Also running a best for MIT was Brian Bates '20, winning his section in
4:22.94.

Marissa McPhillips '20 was in the women's Mile and figured she would do her
part to maintain the winning ways.  The pacer did her job of taking the pace
out in 74 and 2:29, but then stepped off the track and there was no one within
fifty meters of McPhillips.  The sophomore had prepared for this and took care
of business, running 74 point for each quarter to finish in a personal best
4:58.72.  This converts to a banked track equivalent 4:55.80, the fourth best
time in the country currently and third best in New England.

In the field events, Cody Bratten '18 threw his season best 45-1 1/2 in the
Shot Put as he rounds into championship form.  Other top performances came on
the track as Benton Wilson '21 ran 22.43 in the 200 for a flat track PR and
second ranked in New England while sitting on 18th place nationally.  Chris
Sweeney '18 ran an 8.32 to win the 60HH in a season best ranked second in New
England and 19th nationally.  In the 3K, Billy Woltz '20 had an outstanding
race in the 3K, running 69-70 pace the entire way for a huge personal best of
8:39.73.  Dylan Doblar '21 also ran a solid race, although he lost focus
towards the end, he still ran 8:47.56.  Josh Derrick '20 also qualified for
the NED3 meet with an 8:50.64 as he had to lead the entire way in his section
of the 3K.

The women had numerous season and personal bests on the day.  Madeleine Waller
'G cleared 10-6 in the Pole Vault for a personal best and was close to making
11-0.  Ariela Slutsky '18 had a season best of 55-5 3/4 in winning the 20 lb.
Weight Throw.  Slutsky is ranked second in New England and 11th nationally.
Nneoma Okonkwo '18 returned from injury for her first meet of the year.  She
showed she is still better than most of the competition as she jumped 18-4 1/2
to claim second place in the Long Jump.  Okonkwo is ranked eighth nationally.
Hannah Chen '18 ran a season best of 9.09 to get second in the 60HH to move
her to seventh on the New England list and 19th nationally.  Michelle Menkiti
'20 placed second in the 60 Meter Dash in a season best 8.02 as she rounds
into championship shape, but is still only ranked 12th in New England.  The
sophomore also won the 200 in 26.19 out of lane three and is ranked third in
New England.  Kristin Frombach '19 ran a 400 PR of 62.59 to win her section.
Katie Bacher '20 is back from injury and illness and gave notice in winning
the 1000 in 2:59.05, one of three MIT runners ranked in the top four in New
England.  Megan McCandless '20 continues to find her way back from injury as
she ran a season best 10:11.96 in the 3K to move her to eighth in New England
rankings.

Next week MIT will once again split their squad.  Similar to the previous
weekend many of the top oval runners will compete at the Boston University
David Hemery Valentines Invitational, while the field event athletes will
compete at MIT's Gordon Kelly Invitational.



RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

### Gilson, McPhillips Lead Their Respective Teams at Boston University

**Ahrens Crushes Freshman Pole Vault Record**

February 10, 2018

The goal for the final weekend of competition prior to the New England
Division III Championship (NED3), at least for the MIT Track & Field athletes,
was to qualify for the NED3 Championship, improve their seed for that
championship or qualify for the NCAA Division III Championship.

MIT was again splitting their squad.  On Friday and Saturday, most of the top
oval runners would compete at the Boston University David Hemery Valentine
Invitational, while on Saturday, many of the field event athletes would be
competing at the MIT Gordon Kelly Invitational.

Marissa McPhillips '20 got the ball rolling for MIT in the 800 Meter race.
Racing in the eighth section the sophomore took control of the race going into
the final lap. Running 33 seconds evenly per 200 she pulled away to win in a
personal best of 2:12.90.  Racing in different sections of the 800 Bailey
Tregoning '19 2:15.75, Katie Williams '21 2:16.38 and Skylar Brooks '20,
2:22.96 all ran season bests.

In the 1000 Meter race, Margaret Trautner '20 ran a near perfect race.  The
early pace was solid through 400 meters (70.3), but then slowed to 37 seconds
in the third 200.  Trautner was getting impatient with the pace and took the
lead just before the 700 meter mark.  She finished the fourth 200 in 34.5 and
added a 33 to finish in an excellent 2:55.87.  In a later section, Gabby Enns
'21 went out too fast in the first 100, ended up in the lead, splitting 69 for
the first 400.  She faded badly in the final 400, but still split a solid
2:26, showing the potential is there if she controls the beginning of the
race.

In the shorter events, Hannah Chen '18 ran 57.77 in the 400 after having a lot
of contact in the first 200.  In the 200, Michelle Menkiti '20 ran 25.92 to
win her section while Chen ran a season best 26.09.

In the Mile, Katie Bacher '20 was in the one section that ran a slow pace.
All previous sections had gone out in 71 or faster.  Her section went out in
74 and then slowed to 2:31 amid a lot of pushing and shoving.  Bacher really
had no choice but to take the lead and push the pace.  She ran 74 for the
third 400 and then lost some in the final 200 as she just got beat at the line
in 5:00.19.

Jenna Melanson '20 was looking to better her 10:27 in the 3K, hoping to run
under 10:20 and possibly win her section.  The pace was perfect as they strung
together 82 second 400's to come through the 1600 in 5:28.  Melanson was in a
great position through 2K, but then started to doubt herself, falling off the
pace to 84 and then eventually 86.  She finished in 10:24.56 for a season
best.

The DMR started things off for the men at 10:45 p.m. on Friday night.  It was
a definite reach for the men's quartet of Simon Alford '20, Benton Wilson '21,
Nathan Munet '19 and Aidan Gilson '19 to be one of the top 12 teams in the
country for Division III at the end of the indoor season, but certainly a
possibility. Alford led things off with the 1200 leg.  He sat at the back of
the 10 team field, hitting splits that he hoped would get him a 3:02 or
better.  At 61 for the 400 it was clear this would not be a fast leg.  Alford
moved up throughout the next 400, but still the pace slowed as he came through
in 2:03.  With 300 to go he went wide on the turn to move into second at 2:32
for the 1000.  Going into the final 100 the wheels started to fall off as he
went from second to next to last, handing off at 3:04.0.  Benton Wilson quite
literally took off, running 22.5 for the first 200 with much of that in lanes
two and three.  Again the decay in the final 100 took the MIT team from near
to front to the rear in short order although the freshman ran 49.8. Munet did
not learn from Wilson's error, so he did his own version of sprint to the
front as he opened with a 25.0 and 53.5.  While the junior certainly locked up
and went back to next to last in the final straight, he still ran 1:54.8.  The
question was how much of the lost ground and opportunities could Gilson make
up.  It appeared he went out very casually, but still turned a 58.6.  The pace
of the group slowed, allowing Gilson to move up and still recover as he split
2:02 and 3:06.  Gilson passed all but the lead team going into the straight
with just over 200 to go.  Accelerating as he went he put everyone in his rear
view mirror with a 59 last 400 for a 4:05.4 anchor and a 9:54.23 overall
performance.  Most years this time would make it to the NCAA Division III
Championship, but with only the top 12 teams making the field time will tell.

Starting the day at 1:00 and finishing at 10:45 was a long day.  The women
would come back to race the DMR at 10:00 in the morning and all of the men's
DMR members would be racing throughout the day on Saturday.

The women's turn to run the DMR was the final event for the women.  The
primary objective was to race to qualify for the NCAA Division III
Championship.  Bacher was leading off with the 1200 leg after racing the Mile
the night before.   There were 15 teams in the section and all very fast.
Bacher was hoping to run in the low 3:30's so running in the back of the pack
with a 35.8 was a little safer than fighting with the other 14 runners.
However, the pace slowed and she had to move through the field.  She did this
well but still wasted energy running wide and dealing with the contact.  She
moved up to the top five at the end, splitting 3:37.2.  Hannah Chen took the
baton, running too conservative for the first 200 in 28.3, passed one team and
got passed at the end as she handed off to Bailey Tregoning in fifth place in
57.9.  Tregoning, promising not to go out faster than 33 at the 200, split
31.0 as she moved into fourth place with her sights set on second since UConn
was out of sight in first.  Running 64 and 1:38 she was about to move into
second when she stumbled and lost it in the final 100, handing off in 2:16.2.
McPhillips took the baton amidst traffic and even bumped someone pretty hard
during the handoff, but settled in with the top four chase group, splitting
72.8 and 2:27.6.  She felt very comfortable at this point and probably should
have moved then.  Instead she stayed with the group, splitting 3:42.7 before
taking the lead and pushing the final 400 in 69.3.  Bowdoin College caught her
at the finish line, but her 4:52.0 and the team's 11:43.54 are a lock for
Nationals and a rematch opportunity.

The men's next event was the 800.  Both Munet and Alford were returning from
the DMR.  Munet was first and looked very comfortable coming through the 400
in 57.2.  He made a strong move to get to the front but was not quite able to
win his section with his 1:55.42.  Alford went out quite fast as his section
had some strong front runners.  He split 55.6 through the 400, looking very
strong.  On the next backstretch he made a strategic error, had to cut his
momentum and proceeded to fall apart.  He finished in 1:59.09.

Chris Sweeney '18, finally totally healthy, was racing in his first 400 in
more than two years.  He was seeded slow so there was less chance of him being
bumped at the break or feeling he would have to go out too fast as he had been
known to do.  He ran a perfect race, splitting 23.3 and leading from start to
finish in 49.73.  Wilson, coming back from the DMR did not fare so well.  He
felt he was unable to get himself mentally prepared after the DMR the night
before, and it showed.  The freshman seemed totally uninspired with his 51.70.

Tre Albritten '18 ran his season best in the 200, clocking 21.93, which should
put him among the top 20 in the country for Division III.  Wilson continued
his lack of competitiveness, running 22.90.

Gilson was back on the track in the 1000.  With the goal to just win the
section, Gilson let the field do the work while he sat back and observed.
After 600 meters instead of reading the field correctly and coming off the
turn to pass the main chase pack he instead waited until the end of the
straight, passing four on the turn.  He sights now on the leader, Gilson moved
up to the leader, taking the lead with 200 to go after splitting 1:57.
Gaining some initial ground he could not totally pull away, giving up the lead
with 50 meters to go.  Finishing second, Gilson set the MIT record of 2:26.19.

Next on the track for MIT was the Mile Run.  Kent Slaney '21, coming off an
illness, has been frustrated with his performances, but he fixed that with a
vicious 59 kick to win going away in 4:19.39--certainly a step in the right
direction.  Dylan Doblar '21 got caught up in trying too hard to run fast, and
not staying relaxed as a result.  Shortly after the 800, split in 2:10, the
fatigue from pushing started to show.  Nevertheless he held on well in
4:22.31.  Josh Derrick '20, still working his way back from illness, had
another positive race experience even though he died a bit after his 3:15 1200
split.  His final time was 4:22.98.

The final race for MIT at Boston University was the 3K in which Brian Bates
'20 would be competing.  Bates was looking to race well, hope to win his
section and look for something sub 8:40.  Through 1600 meters all was
excellent with a 4:38 split.  However, rather than move up in the field, Bates
felt is was easier to stay where he was, so he did, slowing to 74 pace for the
final two full 400's before kicking it home in 32 seconds for an 8:49.54.

Back at MIT there were a significant number of outstanding performances.
Jacqueline Ahrens '21 continued to shine, setting a new freshman record of
12-8 1/4 in the Pole Vault.  Also in the Pole Vault, teammate Kari Stromhaug
'19 cleared a personal best of 12-6 1/4.  These marks currently have the pair
at three and five on the NCAA Division III list.

Ariela Slutsky '18 threw a personal best 56-8 1/4, which keeps her in 11th on
the National list.  Folusho Jebutu '20 and Elise McCormack-Kuhman also threw
personal bests of 48-8 1/2 and 43-0 3/4 respectively.

In the Triple Jump, Jasmine Jin '20 jumped a new PR of 37-6 3/4.  In the Long
Jump Nneoma Okonkwo '18, only her second meet back from injury, jumped 18-5
and added an 8.08 in the 60 Meter Dash, both season bests.

On the track Kristen Frombach '19 ran a PR in the 400 of 62.14 and Dhaman Kaur
'21 had two season bests, 5:30.03 in the Mile and 2:30.01 in the 800.

For the men in the field events, Ryan Prinster '18 ruled the day with an
impressive 46-11 1/2 in the Triple Jump.  Raja Rajcic '20 cleared 14-11 for a
PR in the Pole Vault and Albert Menio '20 threw a personal best of 41-06 1/4
in the Shot Put.

On the track, Ken Acquah '20 ran a season best in the 200 with a 23.73.

Next week the men will travel to Middlebury College for the New England
Division III Championship and the women will go to Springfield College for
their NED3 Championship.  The women are three time defending champions while
the men finished third last year after having won four consecutive titles.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



