




**VARSITY PULLS AWAY FROM ALUMNI IN ANNUAL MEET**

**Orji Sets Shot Put Freshman Record, Provisionally Qualifies for NCAAs**

**December 14, 2002**

Sixteen Alumni competed on Saturday, won 6 of the 14 events, and came within a
5 point swing and .2 of a second in the 4x200 relay of winning the annual
Alumni / Varsity Meet on the newly named Donald Shobrys and Carol Aronson
Indoor Track. Led by two victories (55 and 200 meters) by sophomore Zach
Traina and a freshman record by Uzoma Orji in the Shot Put, the Varsity pulled
away to a 71-51 victory.

The Varsity were warned many times by the coaching staff that the meet would
be close and if the Alumni would be favored to win the 400, 800, 1500, Wt.
Throw and Triple Jump. If they also won the Pole Vault, Long Jump and 55HH,
events that were in the Varsity's favor but not by much, the meet may come
down to the relay. The Varsity paid no heed and seemed poorly prepared for the
competition that the Alumni brought to the table.

In the first two events, the Weight Throw and the Long Jump, momentum was
definitely in the Alumni's favor. Todd Chamoy, assistant coach and alumni,
showed that even if Chris Khan (absent due to an illness) was competing it
would not likely have mattered, as he threw a personal best of 53-6 1/2.
Junior, David Saylor, also threw a personal best of 48-3 1/4 to place 2nd.
Professor John-Paul Clarke showed that even with no practice in a year, he can
still do well enough to place third as he threw 45-9 1/4.

The Long Jump, one of the bubble events that could go either way, seemed to
only be coveted by the Has-Beens as Ravi Sastry brought back some of the old
magic with a 21-5 3/4 effort for the victory. Professor Bill Singhose held the
old hamstrings together long enough to jump 20-10 1/2 for second, 1/2 inch
ahead of Senior, Brian Hoying. The meet was just underway and the Alumni were
up 14-4.

Before another field event was completed, the 1500 was on the track. Sean
Montgomery was favored to win, with Junior, Brian Anderson given a slight
chance, partially due to very poor sleep over the past couple of weeks.
Anderson's only chance was to take the pace out hard and hope to run away from
Montgomery. The 61 first 400 and 2:05 800 split were fast enough to bring it
down to the final quarter, but Anderson was not able to continue the pace
beyond the 3:09 1200 mark, falling off to a 4:04.13 performance, good enough
for 2nd place. Montgomery pulled away to win easily in 4:01.15. Freshman,
Fivos Constantinou made the error of holding onto the fast early pace through
the half and paid dearly as he faded to 4:13.19 for 3rd.

The High Hurdles was next and a pivotal event in which Sastry and Singhose
could steal the victory. Without the injured Victor Williamson, the Varsity
could only hope for the best. Singhose scratched from the event, leaving
Sastry and Junius Ho to defend the Alumni lead. At the start, Sastry seemed
not to hear the start, giving the rest of the field a nice lead and one he
could not make up. The capture failed to work on the photo finish, forcing the
use of hand times. Rick Rajter '03, won the event in 7.7. Chris Peterson '06
and Craig Mielcarz '03 battled it out for 2nd and ran 7.9 and 8.0 respectively
to sweep the event. This good fortune brought the score to 19-17 in favor of
the Alumni. Sastry finished in 8.2 and Ho in 8.3.

The Shot Put was one of the five certain wins for the current track and field
team. Freshman sensation, Uzoma Orji won by 10' over Singhose, setting the
freshman record of 50-07 1/4 on his 5th throw. The absence of Khan and fellow
shot putters, Francisco Cruz and Phil Zakielarz due to academic conflicts
earlier in the week, provided a total lack of competition for the Alumni as
Clarke placed third.

Another one of the sure wins came in the High Jump, where the Alumni were
unable to field an entrant. Mielcarz and Hoying placed 1st and 2nd
respectively with leaps of 6-6, both narrowly missing 6-8 on their final
attempts. Rajter placed 3rd with a jump of 6-2 to give the Varsity their
second sweep of the meet and a somewhat comfortable lead of 31-23.

Back on the track, Yuval Mazor was hoping to make easy work of the 400 after
the numerous losses of personnel in this event for the Varsity. Tony Pelosi
took out the pace very hard with Mazor close behind as they ran 1-2 through
the first 200 in 25 flat. Hoying getting out slowly, pulled up behind the two
leaders with 150 to go. Pelosi slowed and Mazor went around at the end of the
straight. Hoying followed but too late to avoid having to go wide on the turn.
Hoying made a desperate effort at the end but fell .16 short, 51.56 to 51.72.
Pelosi held on for third to bring the Alumni 3 points closer.

Next, Zach Traina took to the track in his first event, the 55 meter dash.
Assistant coach, Akin Aina was the lone Alumni warrior. Traina had an awkward
start, but quickly established a lead and sprinted away with the victory in
6.70. Aina battled it out with freshman, David Blau, coming out ahead 6.85 to
6.86 to keep the Alumni close.

Montgomery was back in the 800 to repeat the damage he managed in the 1500.
Again Anderson made an attempt to take the pace out, but could only manage a
58 first 400. Montgomery had no problem with this pace and quickly took over
with no other challenges to win in 1:59.73. With a furious kick over the final
150 meters, John Biesiadecki showed that passion is sometimes more important
than training as he pulled ahead of many varsity performers to place second in
2:01.93. George Hanson, a senior, also kicked well at the end, but could not
overtake Biesiadecki, finishing third in 2:02.57. Making up another 7 points,
the comfortable lead was now an Alumni lead of 37-35.

The Triple Jump, an event that could go either way, turned out to be the
pivotal event for the Varsity. Morio Alexander, who seems to get better with
age, and Kalpak Kothari, who placed 1-2 in this meet last year, were not able
to overcome the jumping of Austin Neudecker, '05 and Rajter who jumped 43-6
and 42-11 respectively. The 8-1 point scoring gave the Varsity a lead they
would not relinquish.

Traina went back to work on the track in the 200. This time, Mazor doubled
back from the 400 to give Aina some support. Traina made up the stagger in the
first 50 meters, breezing to a 23.05 victory. Mazor fought off Tom Hoover '05
23.70 to 23.86 for 2nd place.

While the 5000 got underway, the Pole Vault was coming to a close. Battling it
out for first place were Singhose and Nate Ball, '05. Singhose, making as few
efforts as possible, cam in at 13' after not having gone over a bar in a year.
Ball made 14' but so did Singhose. Singhose made 14-6 on his first attempt but
Ball could not respond. Singhose went on the clear 15' before stopping,
claiming he needed to save some efforts for next year. Assistant coach and
recent alumni, Dan Kwon, placed 3rd with 13-0. Also in the vault were Sam
Sidiqi with a fine 13' jump and Steve Lefkowitz who cleared 11-6.

Sean Nolan and Ben Schmeckpeper pulled away at the start of the 5000 and ran
to victory unchallenged in 15:21.33 and 15:31.35. Terry McNatt, recently
recovered from a virus, raced for third and was successful with a 15:55.74.

In the final event, the 800 relay, the Varsity led off with Traina, despite
the 15 minute recovery. The plan was to avoid handoff complications by
providing the Varsity team with a big lead, which worked despite a valiant
effort by Aina. On the second leg, Montgomery made up significant ground on
Hoover to bring the Alumni to within 10 meters. Pelosi further cut into the
lead against freshman Thad Wozniak, putting Mazor at a 5 meter disadvantage.
Mazor twice challenged Blau but was denied both times as the Varsity closed
the meet out with the victory.

In attendance for the Alumni, but not competing, were Don Shobrys, Liyan Guo
and Chuck Van Buren.

MIT is off until January due to exams and the Holiday break. The next meet is
on 1/11 where MIT will host the Beaver Pentathlon at 9:00 AM while the
remainder of the team will head to Brandeis for a low key invitational.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**TECH TRACK PERFORMS WELL AT HOME PENTATHLON AND BRANDEIS INVITATIONAL**

January 11, 2003

MIT had to abandon hosting the annual Beaver Relays due to a lack of interest
from enough teams. Instead, MIT split their squad, hosting the pentathlon part
of the cancelled relay meet and sending the remainder of the team to Brandeis
for a scored invitational. At the former, Tech auto qualified 3 pentathletes
and came within a few points for another, and at the latter, the Beavers won
handily (MIT 199, Tufts 131, NYU 72, Brandeis 64, USM 52, Worcester State 36,
Conn. College 22, Fitchburg State 1) despite the fact the pentathletes did not
compete in the meet.

The Engineers hosted the pentathlon because of the need to qualify in the
event for the New England Division III Championship. An event which MIT has
dominated in recent years, it continues to be a strength for the team. Needing
2900 points to automatically qualify for the championship, the entries from
MIT and the University of New Hampshire, toed the line in the 55HH, the first
of the five events. While none of the athletes ran very well at 9:00 in the
morning, Rick Rajter ran the fastest time with a 8.15 time, good for 772
points. After the required thirty minute rest, the athletes headed to the long
jump pit for their three attempts at a best effort. Again, none jumped very
well, but Craig Mielcarz edged Tom Hoover 20-9 3/4 to 20-9 1/4 to earn the
most points (661). The third event, the shot put went much better for the
Engineers. Rajter threw a little farther than Mielcarz, 36-11 1/2 to 36- 5 3/4
to again take top honors with 562 points. In the high jump, the 4th event,
Mielcarz again led the way with a sub par jump of 6'4, which netted him 740
points. The only MIT athlete to jump well for his abilities was Victor
Williamson, who cleared 5'10, nearly a personal best. In the final event, the
1000 meters, it was clear that Mielcarz, Rajter and Williamson would not have
to run very hard to score 2900 points. Hoover needed a 2:56 time in order to
reach the necessary total and went out in perfect pace at 35 seconds for the
first 200. Hoover continued the exact pace for two more laps, coming through
600 meters in 1:45. At the 800, he had fallen 2 seconds off pace and needed to
pick it up in the final lap to hit his time. Falling 1 second, and 6 points
short, he is probably assured a spot in the championship competition.
Freshman, Chris Peterson won the 1000 in 2:54 to help his score in his first
pentathlon and earn 716 points.

Over at Brandeis, the diminished MIT team was preparing to face the
competition, most of which were missing athletes who had not yet returned from
the holiday break. MIT went into the meet with the attitude of getting a good
workout while not trying to over work any of the athletes. The big performer
for Tech was Brian Anderson, who won both the 1500 and 800 with times of
4:02.08 and 1:56.92 respectively. Brian also anchored the 3200 relay in 1:59
to bring the team to a 2nd place in that event.

Also scoring a lot of points was Austin Neudecker, who participated in 6
events and scored 31 1/2 points, nearly 1/6 of MIT's total. Austin won the
triple jump, tied for 2nd in the high jump, earned a 3rd in the long jump,
placed 5th in the 55 and 4th in the 200 and ran his first 400 in anchoring the
4x400 to victory with a 52.8 leg.

Zach Traina placed 2nd in both the 55 and the 200 while leading off the 1600
relay with a 51.7 400. Also doing well in the 55 was David Blau, setting a
personal best of 6.75.

Brian Hoying placed 2nd in the 400 and High Jump before tweaking his hamstring
in the long jump. Thad Wozniak set a personal best in the 400 with a 52.69,
good enough for 4th.

Steve Stoddard ran his first 600 in 1:27.32, to place 2nd. Steve Kannan ran a
personal best of 1:29. 81 to place 6th.

In the distance events, Sean Nolan easily won the 5000 with a casual 15:27.42.
Craig Wildman followed in 2nd with a season best of 15:51.54. Earlier in the
day, Ben Schmeckpeper just missed a victory in the 3000 when he ran 8:45.90,
getting outkicked by .45 seconds. Steve Maltas had his debut with a 9:03.93.

MIT had two outstanding performances in the throws. Uzoma Orji won the shot
put by nearly 10 feet with a throw of 52-7 1/4 and David Saylor broke 50' for
the first time in winning the 35lb. wt. throw in 50-2 1/2.

Next week, MIT will face much stiffer competition when they travel to New
London, Connecticut to face Bates and host Coast Guard.

RETURN TO INDOOR






**MIT TRACK COMPETES WELL IN COED INVITE**

**Top Performers Rest for Division III Championship**

February 15, 2003

Seven men's teams and ten women's teams competed today at the MIT Coed
Invitational. There was no score kept, and many teams either sent their best
athletes to Boston University to run on the fast banked track, or rested them
for next week's New England Division III Championship. However, those who did
compete produced some fine performances.

MIT's best results came in the throwing events. In the weight throw, Tech's
past and present throwers placed 1-4 and produced two personal bests. Chris
Khan won with a throw of 56-0. Assistant coach and alumnus Todd Chamoy threw a
personal best of 54-0 1/2 for 2nd. Freshman, Uzoma Orji threw over 52' for the
second week in a row for 3rd with 52-4. David Saylor also set a personal best
with a throw of 51-5 1/2. In the shot put, it was Orji's turn to take first
with a toss of 53-4 1/2. Khan threw for a personal best of 44-3 1/4 for 3rd
place. Francisco Cruz had a season best of 41-6 for 6th.

The next strongest area for the Engineers were the sprints. Zach Traina
claimed two first places, running 6.65 in the 55 meter dash and 22.95 in the
200. Freshman David Blau did his part by placing 2nd in the 55 with a 6.68 and
3rd in the 200 with a 23.53.

The middle distances went well for MIT even though the performances were not
quite at the championship level. In the 800, Steve Stoddard ran a personal
indoor best with a 2:00.92 to place 3rd. In the 1500 Steve Maltas ran an
outstanding 4:08.07 for the victory. Craig Wildman and David Gray supported
Maltas's victory with a 3rd and 4th in 4:09.99 and 4:12.14 respectively, both
MIT bests. John Brewer ran a season best with a 4:14.70 to place 6th.

Ben Schmeckpeper and Sean Nolan returned to active status with an easy 1-2 in
the 3000 with times of 8:55.15 and 8:57.22 respectively. Ian Driver made a
valiant effort at sub 16:00 pace in the 5000 but went a little overboard with
a 15:40 pace. Driver fell off the pace in the final mile but still ran a
16:15.67 for 3rd.

The only other victory for MIT came in the Distance Medley Relay. Steve Maltas
led off with a 3:17 1200. Zach Traina provided a fine 50.8 400 leg to put MIT
well in the lead. Steve Stoddard added a 2:01 to give the Engineers a good
possibility of breaking 10:40. Craig Wildman was a little too anxious and
delivered a 62 first 400. Only able to produce quarters of 70, 72 and 72
afterwards gave MIT a cumulative time of 10:46.12, the best of the season.

Taking a rest were pentathletes Craig Mielcarz, Rick Rajter and Tom Hoover.
Austin Neudecker and Nate Ball wanted to give their legs another week to heal
from minor injuries. Brian Anderson raced over at Boston University and ran
the mile in a personal best of 4:12.17 after getting boxed in in the middle of
the race.

Next week, MIT plays host to the New England Division III Championship with
the pentathlon taking place on Friday at noon and the remainder of the meet
starting at 11:00 on Saturday. MIT does not have the necessary balance to be
favorites but their senior leadership may overcome the odds and enable them to
win their 3rd title in the last four years.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**TECH PLACES 2ND IN GREATER BOSTON CHAMPIONSHIPS**

**Held Out Athletes Hope to Heal for New England Division III Championship**

February 8, 2003

The second annual revival of the Greater Boston Championship with Bentley,
Brandeis, Harvard, MIT and Northeastern competing at the MIT Johnson track
took place today with Northeastern showing their power as they easily
outscored MIT 200.5 to 106.5. Harvard was 3rd with 66 points, followed by
Bentley with 55 and Brandeis with 17.

Both Harvard and MIT left many key competitors out of the competition for
different reasons. Harvard felt they needed to rest individuals for their meet
with Princeton and Yale next week. MIT had many individuals who could have
competed but needed another week to get back to 100% after minor injuries.
With the New England Division III Championship in two weeks, MIT was not
taking any chances with risking additional injury.

MIT had many key performances but seemed to have difficulty rallying the
entire team with so many key individuals not competing. In the field
developments, the throws once again led the way. In the weight throw, Chris
Khan finished 2nd with a throw of 55-9 3/4. Vinny Tortorella of Northeastern
set a facility record with his throw of 70-1 for the victory. Uzoma Orji set a
freshman record with his throw of 52-7 3/4 to finish 4th and David Saylor
finished 5th with 49-11 3/4. In the shot put, Orji did not have a great day
but still finished 3rd with a throw of 50-8 1/2. Khan had a season best of
43-6 1/2 to place 6th.

In the horizontal jumps, MIT went 1-2 in the long jump with their only two
participants, Craig Mielcarz 21-0 1/2, and Austin Neudecker 20-6 3/4. Resting
Brian Hoying and Tom Hoover kept Tech from sweeping 1-4. The triple jumps did
not go so well as Neudecker could not duplicate his 45' effort from a week ago
and finished 4th with 42-9. Rick Rajter fell in the hurdle final, bruising his
heel and could not finish competition in the triple jump. Victor Williamson
managed a 6th with 41-5 1/4.

Craig Mielcarz won the high jump with a leap of 6-8 and was supported by
Rajter in 4th with 6-2 and Neudecker in 6th, also with 6-2. Nate Ball took
another week off, allowing the win to go at 15'. Josh Chartier placed 6th with
his jump of 12'6.

The sprints went pretty well for MIT with David Blau continuing to have a
great year, running 6.67 for a third week in a row, placing 5th, and placing
6th in the 200 with a PR of 23.38. Zach Traina, not scoring in the 55, did
place 3rd in the 200 with a 22.98 effort. In the 55HH, Rajter had the third
best time in the trials, but did not finish in the final. Mielcarz placed 4th
and Chris Peterson tied for 5th in hand times of 8.0 and 8.2 respectively.

If Hoying had run, MIT would have placed 3rd in the 400. Without him and
Hoover, the best Tech could do was a 10th place by Thad Wozniak who ran a
personal best of 52.40.

The 800 and mile were once again the Brian Anderson show. In the mile,
Anderson let the opposition do the lead work for the first 600 meters, then
took over, winning by over 4 seconds in 4:18.41. Thirty minutes later,
Anderson toed the line in the 800. Elbowed hard at the start, Anderson dropped
to the rear of the front pack but noticing an opening, quickly moved up
towards the front. Taking elbows along the way, he also was stepped on,
knocking his shoe partially off. For nearly the entire 2nd 200, he tried to
force the shoe back on his heel, finally succeeding with 400 to go. After
coming through in 57 for the 400, Anderson had some work to do to move to the
front. On his last 200, he turned in a 28 to overtake the leader and win going
away with a season best 1:55.57.

Allowing Sean Nolan and Ben Schmeckpeper another week to heel, Craig Wildman
took over the honors of defending MIT turf in the 5000. Going after the win
left Wildman in oxygen debt for the last mile, causing him to slow to a still
respectable 15:37.51 for 4th place.

Next week, MIT will be at home in the non-scoring Coed Invitational. Brian
Anderson will go to Boston University to race the 1500 in the Fastrack
Invitational.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**ANDERSON SETS VARSITY RECORD IN FINAL TUNE-UP FOR NATIONALS**

March 11, 2003

Brian Anderson led the few competing Engineers from MIT at the IC4A
Championship held at the Boston University track. MIT placed 46th in this very
prestigious meet, due entirely to Anderson's 7th place finish in the 1000
meter run.

Scheduled to compete, but choosing to allow minor injuries to heal were high
jumper Craig Mielcarz and shot putter Uzoma Orji. Chris Khan competed in the
weight throw and placed 13th with a throw of 55-7.

Anderson set the MIT varsity record in the trials of the 1000 meter run as he
ran in the lead for most of the race, finishing with the 3rd fastest time in
all the trials with 2:26.38. In the finals, the race went out too slow and
Anderson was not prepared for the necessary strategy. His trial time would
have won the final as it was won in 2:26.58. Anderson finished in 7th with a
time of 2:27.84.

Competing over at Tufts University in the ECAC Championship in the weight
throw was David Saylor. MIT qualified most of their team for the ECAC meet,
but chose to prepare those not going on to nationals for the upcoming outdoor
season. Saylor was not able to improve his NCAA provisional mark, thus causing
him to miss the national championship.

Anderson, Khan, Mielcarz and Orji will head to DePauw University on the 13th
to compete in the NCAA Division III Championship.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**3 ALL AMERICA WINNERS LEAD MIT AT NATIONALS**

March 15, 2003

Brian Anderson continued to run well in the 800, placing third at the indoor
NCAA championships held at DePauw University in Greencastle, Indiana this
weekend. Anderson's performance led the three All America winners from MIT,
guiding them to a 10 point total, good for a tie at 16th place.

In the trials of the 800, run Friday night, Anderson took the lead at the
start and stayed there, running splits of 26, 54, 1:23 for a final time of
1:54.44. The track had a small radius, which meant tight turns on the 200
oval, helping to keep the times a little on the slow side.

The finals of the 800 were the next day, giving Anderson a much needed
recovery. The eventual winner, Matt Groose of Wisconsin Oshkosh, took the lead
with a blazing leadoff 200 of 25 and never looked back. Anderson followed, but
not too closely, coming through near identical splits as the night before.
Only one other runner followed Anderson through the quick pace. After the
third 200, the gap between the three lead runners and the rest of the field
was over 15 meters. Anderson faded a bit in the final 200, giving up 2nd place
by less than a second to Josh Zobenica of Lynchburg College. Anderson's final
time of 1:54.26 was an all time best for him on a flat indoor track.

Earning his 4th All America honor, Craig Mielcarz jumped 6-9 3/4 to place 7th.
In an unusually deep field, eight jumpers cleared 6-9 3/4. Possibly a little
rusty from his two weeks off with a foot injury, Mielcarz missed once at 6-6
and twice at 6-9 3/4. While only 2 jumpers cleared 6-11 3/4, Mielcarz placed
below most of the other jumpers clearing 6-9 3/4 due to his number of misses
at that height.

Freshman Uzoma Orji, managed to come back through what is becoming an annual
throwing event debacle and finish 7th with a throw of 52-11 1/2 in the shot
put. In the original competition, the officials allowed the house shot, which
was a 14 lb. implement, to enter the competition. Those using the implement
threw approximately 5 feet further than they had previously done this year.
Orji finished 7th in that competition as well with a legal throw of 53-3 1/2.
Fortunately the record was thought to have been broken and the implement used
weighed again. What was obvious to many became official and the competition
was scheduled to be run again three and half hours later. Orji, who had an
injured ankle that he seemed to ignore in the morning competition, was unable
to keep from limping on his blocking foot. Nevertheless, he managed to stick
the throw that earned him what will likely be the first of many All America
awards.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**Mielcarz Leads Team to 3rd New England Division III Title in 4 Years**

February 22, 2003

MIT played host to the New England Division III Indoor Track and Field
Championship, and defended their home turf very well, winning the meet for the
third time in the past four years with 120 points. The next closest teams were
Williams College with 88 points and Tufts University with 87 to lead the
charge of the other 24 teams.

Going into the meet, MIT was determined to keep their confidence high despite
what seemed like fate trying to deal them a bad hand. Nate Ball, the #1 seed,
and defending champion in the pole vault was injured with a hamstring pull and
was very unlikely to compete. Previous national qualifier in the high jump and
the team's best 400 runner, Brian Hoying was out with a stress fracture to his
foot. National cross country qualifiers Ben Schmeckpeper and Sean Nolan were
enduring minor injuries that were preventing them from training properly.
Austin Neudecker, the team's number one triple jumper had been nursing a sore
ankle for nearly a month. All in all, the team was down 30 or more points
before the meet even started. Nevertheless, the spirit of the team, led by the
indomitable force supplied by the seniors was not succumbing to the
disappointment.

Tri-captain, Craig Mielcarz, led the way for MIT, scoring 29 points and
winning two of only three events won by the Engineers. On Friday, Mielcarz led
the MIT pentathletes to a 1-2-3-4 finish and a 29 point first day total.
Having the meet of his life, Mielcarz began with a personal best in the 55HH
of 8.00. Knowing he needed to conserve energy for day two of the meet,
Mielcarz made his first long jump count as he seemingly flew to another PR of
22-5 3/4, which was certainly enough to convince his coaches to tell him to
put his warmups on and wait for the shot put. A third PR in a row was
delivered by Mielcarz in the shot with a toss of 37-5 3/4. With the event
thoroughly in hand at this point, Mielcarz stopped the high jump after two
jumps, one at 6-4 1/4 and one at 6-5 1/2. Mielcarz finished the event with a
3:07 jog in the 1000 to easily score 3526 points, 107 better than teammate
Rick Rajter.

Rajter, another of the tri-captains competed with a severe heel bruise he
received in a fall over the hurdles two weeks earlier. Jumping was
excruciating for Rajter but he persevered through the event to set a personal
best pentathlon score of 3419 points and place second.

Tom Hoover, seeded 8th going into the pentathlon, kept up the MIT tradition of
dominating the multi-event with season bests in every event. A 8.35 in the
hurdles, a one jump 21-8 3/4 effort in the long jump, a huge best of 32-7 3/4
in the shot put, a 5-11 1/2 in the high jump and a perfectly run 2:54 1000
earned Hoover a 3rd overall with a personal best total of 3298 points.

Seeded 7th coming into the event, and in 7th place with just the 1000
remaining, Victor Williamson surprised everyone with a phenomenal 2:50.31 to
win the 1000 and move up to 4th place overall with a personal best total of
3198 points.

Going into day 2 the feeling by the Engineers was that it was their meet and
no one was going to take this opportunity away. The first two events, the long
jump and 35lb. weight throw were crucial ones for MIT. The long jump was going
to show how well Mielcarz and Hoover would be able to come back from the
pentathlon the day before. Hoover showed no ill effects as he popped a 21-9
1/4 in the first flight. Mielcarz stayed one placed ahead by jumping 22-0 3/4
in the second flight. Hoover improved to a personal best of 21-11 1/4 in the
finals to give MIT 4th and 5th place and 9 points when they were only seeded
for 3.5 points.

The weight throwers scored 15 points to hold up their end of the plan. Chris
Khan led the way with a second place effort of 57-4 1/2. David Saylor threw a
huge personal best of 54-2 1/4, good for 4th place. Uzoma Orji did very well
for a freshman in a new event as he threw 52-5 1/2 for 7th place. This gave
Tech 53 points and half of what the coaches thought they would need to
guarantee a team victory.

On the track, MIT was seeded to get 4.5 points in the dash but failed to
qualify anyone for the finals with David Blau just missing with a 6.71 55
meters. The 55HH, another pivotal event for the pentathletes, was one where
MIT was seeded to earn 3 points. To prove his 8.00 PR from the day before was
no fluke, Mielcarz blew out of the blocks in first, faded to second but ran a
7.91 to earn a trip to the finals. Determined not to give into the pain from
his heel, Rick Rajter ran 8.00 in his trial to also get into the finals.

The first running final, the 1500, had Brian Anderson going up against the top
two milers in the country for division III and another who was ranked 5th in
the country, just behind Anderson. The race disappointed no one as Ryan Bak of
Trinity took the pace out hard and kept going, running a meet record 3:47.84.
Anderson couldn't quite hold onto third, getting outkicked in the final
straight. However, his 4th place effort of 3:54.24 was very impressive.

The 55HH final was next and the entire MIT team was anxious to see what
Mielcarz and Rajter could force their bodies to do. Unbelievably, Mielcarz set
another PR with a 7.90 for 5th place. Just a hair behind, Rajter came in with
a season best of 7.91 for 6th, giving MIT 4 more points than they were seeded
to get, making up for the dash disappointment.

Heading into the high jump and shot put, events MIT was seeded #1 in, the team
knew that positive results could nearly clinch the meet. Mielcarz continued
his amazing meet with no misses through 6-8 1/4 to win the event on misses,
giving MIT ten more points to total 75 points.

Uzoma Orji did not put the shot out of reach and the defending champion from
Williams College took the lead on the 5th round with a throw of 53-2. On his
last throw, Orji gave it his all, tying for the lead at 53-2. Based on the 2nd
best throw, Orji won the event based on his 52-10 1/2 in the 2nd round.

Back on the track, Brian Anderson was about to go up against the same three
runners who beat him in the 1500, in the 1000. Bak wasted no time in taking
the pace out, coming through the 200 in 29 and 400 in 58. Bak slowed a little
and Anderson took the lead, coming through the 600 in 1:28. Holding the lead
through the 800 in 1:58.8, Anderson could not quite hold off Bak in the home
stretch, running a personal best of 2:28.13 for 2nd and what would prove to be
the winning points as Tech brought their total to 93.

In the final field event, Austin Neudecker leaped to a personal best of 45-5
1/2, despite his ankle, claiming 2nd place. Rajter managed a season best with
a heel jarring 43-1 1/4 for 6th place, giving MIT 11 more points and the 100+
they though they would need to win the meet with 5 events to go.

Sean Nolan, the other tri-captain, endured the pain in his foot to run a huge
season best of 8:46.77 in the 3000. Nolan's great effort earned him a 5th
place and energized the relay teams to do their best as well.

With 108 points going into the relays, it was mathematically impossible for
any team to catch MIT, so instead of putting Hoover and Rajter through any
more pain, MIT pulled their 4x400 team. The distance medley relay team, seeded
9th, was led off by freshman distance runner David Gray. Gray managed to stay
with the main pack, running 3:17 for the 1200 leg. Zach Traina made up for his
poor 55 dash and disqualification in the 200 when he ran on the lane line and
interfered with another runner, by running an outstanding 50.3 in the 400.
Freshman Chris Peterson, a pentathlon participant the coaches pulled before
the 1000 meter run because of no chance of placing, ran the 800 leg. Truly
inspired, Peterson went out in 27 and 57 in an effort to stay with the other
runners. Peterson slowed to 2:03, but it was a huge personal best. Running
anchor was another freshman, distance runner Steve Maltas. Maltas, making a
late season comeback ran an outstanding leg, passing teams along the way to
his 4:24 1600. The team's 10:35.54 was good enough for 5th place and 4 more
points.

In the final event, the 3200 relay, MIT wanted to win to defend their event
title from the year before. Leading off, George Hanson ran a great leg in what
proved to be a very deep field. Hanson handed off with a 2:02.0 leadoff leg.
Steve Stoddard delivered a personal best, bringing MIT up to the leaders with
a 1:58.9 leg. Taku Iida had a performance as good as anyone on the team,
improving by 3 seconds as he ran 2:00.6, good enough to bring MIT within 4
seconds of the lead. Anderson, running his third event within 2 1/2 hours,
wasted no time going after Bates College 1:55 800 runner. Coming through 200
splits of 26, 53 and 1:23 (good enough to win the open 600), Anderson closed
to within 10 meters but could not get any closer. Running a 1:54.6 leg,
Anderson brought the team home in 7:56.29, good for 2nd place.

With the season goal accomplished, MIT will rest most of their stars who have
not qualified for the NCAA Championship in three weeks so that they will be
ready for the start of the outdoor season. The next meet, the all division New
England championship held at Boston University on February 28 and March 1 will
be an opportunity for MIT's national level competitors to compete in one event
and focus on improving their national rank.

RETURN TO INDOOR






**ANDERSON QUALIFIES FOR NCAA CHAMPIONSHIP IN 800**

**Orji Adds to his Freshman Weight Throw Record**

March 1, 2003

MIT Men's Track and Field team, fresh off the New England Division III
Championship title, decided to start outdoor practice early for most of the
qualifiers for the All Division New England Championship being held at Boston
University this weekend. The few who participated scored 18 points, good
enough for 12th place among New England's division I, II and III Institutions.

Uzoma Orji, added to the 35 lb. weight throw freshman record with a throw of
52-10. While he did not score in the weight throw, he placed 3rd in his
specialty, the shot put, with a throw of 52-3 1/4. Orji seemed prepared to
throw a big one in the shot, but he was not able to get anything out of his
power leg on the release.

Also in the weight throw, Chris Khan placed 6th with a throw of 55-11 1/4. On
his 4th throw, Khan hit his position perfectly and the ball flew over 60'. As
we all erupted in cheers, Khan got pulled out of the front of the circle by a
toe, fouling the throw.

In the high jump, Craig Mielcarz could not adjust to the surface and his
unusually fresh legs. Although he never found his rhythm, he did manage 6' 7
to place 4th.

Neither Zach Traina nor David Blau placed in the 200, but they both had big
personal bests. Traina proved he belonged among the best 200 runners by
running 22.53 on the BU oval, missing the finals by one person. Blau ran
22.95, tying Traina's freshman record from last year.

Brian Anderson, ran the 800 fresh for the first time this year, qualifying for
the NCAA Division III Championship in two weeks. Anderson took the lead in the
trials heat, running splits of 27, 55 and 1:23 before finishing in 1:52.07,
the 2nd fastest time in MIT history. In the finals, Anderson made the
technical error of cutting his momentum a couple of times, making all the more
difficult for his already tired legs. Nevertheless, his final time of 1:52.89
was good enough for 5th place.

Next week, Anderson will run the 1000 at the IC4A Championship being hosted at
BU. Khan, Mielcarz, and Orji will also compete at the IC4As in their
specialties as they make final preparations for the NCAA Championships.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**MIT WINS QUAD MEET TO MOVE 1 STEP CLOSER TO UNDEFEATED SEASON**

January 25, 2003

Beating Williams College, the team that prevented many MIT undefeated seasons
in the 90s, for the second consecutive year, has put MIT one meet away from
having their second undefeated season in succession. Led by seven victories in
the seventeen events, MIT scored 238 points to Williams' 164.5, RPI's 147.5
and 36 for Westfield State.

Five minutes into the meet, an excess of steam in the Zamboni room on the
bottom floor of the Johnson Athletic Center, set off the fire alarm, causing a
20 minute delay. After an additional 10 minute warmup for those in the current
field events, the meet got back underway.

The delay did not seem to hurt the Engineers from MIT as they scored 92 points
in the 6 field events. The scoring for a quadrangular meet under the NCAA
rules is 9-7-6-5-4-3-2-1 for the top 8 places. Meet rules allowed a team to
score up to 4 places in a given event, or a maximum of 27 points. Leading the
way was a sweep in the high jump. Craig Mielcarz won on misses over teammate
Brian Hoying in a modest 6-5. Setting season bests for 3rd and 4th were Rick
Rajter and Austin Neudecker respectively at 6-3 1/2.

Also claiming field event victories were Nate Ball in the pole vault and Uzoma
Orji in the shot put. Ball qualified provisionally for nationals with an
indoor PR of 15-5. Orji won the battle of the number 1 and 2 shot putters in
NCAA Division III with a toss of 53-6 3/4.

Numerous personal and season bests were experienced by the runners from MIT.
In the 55 dash, Zach Traina and David Blau both ran personal bests, running
6.64 and 6.67 respectively as they placed 2nd and 3rd. The duo led the way in
the 200 as well with Traina setting a PR of 22.93 in a winning effort. Blau
placed 4th with his PR of 23.70. Also running personal bests were Tom Hoover
and Thad Wozniak, placing 6th and 8th with times of 23.79 and 23.97.

In the middle distance and distance events, Brian Anderson ran two season
bests, placing 2nd in the mile with a 4:16.88 and then coming back an hour
later and running 2:33.10 in the 1000 for a victory. Ben Schmeckpeper led a
trio of personal bests in the 5000. Schmeckpeper led wire to wire with a flat
track best of 15:00.94. Lending support were Craig Wildman in 3rd with a
15:37.84 and Ian Driver in 6th with a 16:12.06.

Next week, MIT faces their toughest challenge of the season when they travel
to Bowdoin to face the Polar Bears along with very good teams from Springfield
College and Tufts University. Bowdoin has one of the best distance squads in
the country and Springfield is strong in the shorter distances and field
events. Tufts has everything and will probably be the team to beat.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**MEN'S TRACK FINISHES REGULAR SEASON UNDEFEATED**

**Field Events Lead the Way in Quad Win Over Bowdoin, Springfield and Tufts**

February 1, 2003

MIT Men's Track and Field was able to survive a challenging meet against tough
competition to finish the regular season undefeated for the second season in
succession. In a meet where the running events were owned by the opponents,
the field events came through to score 88 1/2 of the 197 1/2 total points
scored by MIT. Bowdoin, the host team finished second with 165 points,
followed by Tufts with 151 and Springfield with 132.5.

One of the few coed meets MIT is involved in, the women's field events were
conducted first, leaving the men to wait around and somewhat guess when to
start warming up. Apparently, this only served to stoke the fires of
competition in the Tech participants. The triple jump was the first event
competed and MIT wasted no time showing they would take care of business.
Austin Neudecker tied his personal best with a 45-1 3/4 effort to easily win
the event. Rick Rajter came from behind to claim second with a 42-8 1/4 and
Victor Williamson added a fourth with a season best of 42-0 1/2.

Chris Khan and David Saylor did there part in the 35lb. Weight Throw with a
1-2 finish of their own. Both set personal bests with throws of 57-11 and 50-6
3/4. Khan's throw moves him into 6th on the all time MIT list.

While things were going well in the field, Brian Anderson started things off
right in the mile with a 4:18.51 victory. Sean Nolan, battling a foot injury
ran a season best of 4:25. 75, but was obviously not at his best as he
finished 6th in the deep field. Ben Schmeckpeper, another expected scorer, was
thinking about a potential leg injury and was not able to race well.

The high hurdlers expected to do well and they all ran fast. However, going
against four of the five best hurdlers in New England Division III, those fast
times were only able to net them 5th, 6th and 7th. Rajter led the way with an
8.01 and Craig Mielcarz ran a personal best with 8.07.

The high jump, an event MIT needed to exploit in this meet, was setting up as
an intense competition. In addition to Tech's entries, there were 3 other
jumpers who had leaped at least 6-8 in their careers. Mielcarz continued to
have a great day, winning the event with a new indoor personal best and school
record of 6-10 3/4, which also qualified him automatically for the NCAA
championships. Brian Hoying showed he is getting back in championship form as
he easily cleared 6-6 3/4 to garner 3rd place. Austin Neudecker and Rick
Rajter both cleared 6-2 3/4 to earn a tie for 5th and 7th places respectively.
The 20.5 points was MIT's second best event of the day.

The pole vault went as well as could be expected with Nate Ball (3rd on MIT's
all time list) nursing an injured hamstring. Josh Chartier stepped up with a
season best of 12-6 to earn 4th place.

Due to a lack of depth, the 400-1000 events were a definite weakness,
particularly against schools with the track strength of Bowdoin and Tufts. In
the 400, Hoying ran above his seed to place 3rd with a 51.73 and Tom Hoover
ran a season best of 52.53 to place 7th in the stacked field. The 600 went
better than expected with Chris Peterson coming back from the hurdles and
placing 4th out of the slow section with a 1:27.79. He was supported by a 7th
and 8th from Steve Kannan and Steve Stoddard respectively to make it an all
freshman event for MIT. Anderson came back from the mile and easily won the
800 with a 1:57.04. George Hanson ran a season best of 2:01.33 to place 5th.
The 800 was the only running event in which MIT outscored all other teams. The
1000, another all freshman event for MIT did not go as well as expected.
Although all ran season bests, the meet goals were a bit higher than was
achieved. Eric Khatchadourian ran a 2:38.15 to place 5th. Fivos Constantinou
placed 7th with a 2:40.02.

The sprints had both good and bad news for MIT. Freshman David Blau had a
great day by first matching his personal best of 6.67 to place 2nd in the 55
dash, then by running a personal best of 23.42 to earn 6th in a very talented
field. Zach Traina did not have a good day in the 55 as he ran only 6.80 to
place 6th. In the 200, Traina suffered from the meet setup mistake made by
Bowdoin and was put in lane 1, a very disadvantageous lane on a flat indoor
track. Bowdoin set up the lanes based on entry times in all of the races when
they should have been set up randomly, and the meet director was unwilling to
make the necessary changes before the meet started. Traina made the best of it
but was unable to overcome the obstacle, placing 4th in 23.18. Hoover earned
another 7th with a personal best of 23.54.

Without Nolan and Schmeckpeper at their best, the distance events did not
inspire high hopes for MIT. The 3000 would have gone well, but Nolan's foot
was bothering him and was scratched from the event. David Gray ran a personal
best of 9:07.53 to place 5th for MIT's only points. Schmeckpeper's leg felt
well enough to race the 5k, but was pulled out to a very fast pace and was
unable to hold it. After coming through the mile in 4:43, the pace began to
slow, so much so that the 3rd mile was run in 5:07. Unable to hold the lead,
Schmeckpeper fell to 2nd in 15:18.16. Craig Wildman is doing his best do live
up to his name as he once again knocked seconds off his time to run another
personal best, this time a 15:29.50 to place 3rd. Ian Driver added an 8th
place in 16:24.13.

With two of the 4x400 legs still competing in the long jump, Peterson and Thad
Wozniak joined Traina and Rajter to run a season best of 3:28.25. Traina led
off with a 50.9 to highlight the race.

The only races won by MIT during the meet were those with Brian Anderson
entered and the 4x800 was no different. Khatchadourian ran 2:03.9 to put MIT
in front. Hanson ran 2:04.6, dropping MIT back to second by about 10 meters.
Stoddard ran his best race of the year by far when he made up the gap he
inherited as well as what was created when the Springfield 3rd leg went out in
25 for the first 200. Stoddard brought the baton home to Anderson with a lead
after his 2:00.5 leg. Anderson was not about to give up an inherited lead as
he expanded the lead to 10 seconds with a 1:57.2 anchor for a 8:06.52 season
best.

The final events to be contested, the long jump and shot put were were nearing
completion at the end of the relays. Four of the eight finalists in the long
jump were from MIT. Hoover placed 3rd with a 21-4, and was supported by
Mielcarz in 4th with 21-0 1/2, Neudecker in 7th with 20-7 1/4 and Hoying in
8th with 20-5 3/4. It was not until this point that the MIT team could relax,
knowing their undefeated season was a reality.

The shot put provided a fitting end to the meet. Uzoma Orji, performing poorly
in the weight throw, remained undefeated in the shot. Orji opened with a 52'
throw to virtually win the competition before it got started. On the final
round, the 2nd place thrower from Springfield set a season best of 51-3 1/2 to
get the crowd going. This was all Orji needed. As he took measure of the
landing area, he strode back to the circle meaning to take care of business,
which he did with a crowd wowing 53-7 1/2. Khan added a 42-9 3/4 line drive to
place 7th.

Next week, MIT hosts the Greater Boston Championship against Bentley College,
Brandeis University, Harvard University and Northeastern University at 3:00.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**MIT TAKES FIRST IN TRI-MEET VS. BATES AND COAST GUARD**

**Anderson's Double Victory and Orji's and Khan's National Qualifying Marks
Lead Way**

January 18, 2003

Brian Anderson led the Engineers with two victories in the 1500 and 800 as MIT
(152.5) downed Bates (104.5) and Coast Guard (92) in a tri-meet hosted by
Coast Guard. In a supporting role, many MIT athletes stepped up to do their
part. Uzoma Orji again boosted his shot put best as he won the event with a
53-10 1/4. Orji's mark currently lead all Division III national marks and set
the MIT varsity record, previously set by John Morefield in 1956\. Chris Khan
made his successful return to competition with a national qualifying mark of
53-6 1/2 in the weight throw, and helped out with a 3rd place effort of 42-6
3/4 in the shot. Craig Mielcarz scored the most points for Tech by winning the
long jump with a leap of 21-4 3/4, 2nd in the High Jump (6-5) and another 2nd
in the 55HH (8.12 in the trials).

Many Engineers were on the sidelines nursing minor injuries with hopes they
would be ready to go next week when MIT will have to raise the bar on their
performances if they hope to defeat Williams College. Zach Traina, who won the
55 dash, was hampered by an adductor muscle strain and did not run the 200.
Brian Hoying, a major threat for MIT in the jumps and 400 is resting a
strained hamstring. Rick Rajter competed, but a pinched nerve prevented him
from doing well. Sean Nolan, bothered by a foot injury, rested when it was
clear his teammates did not need his services. Freshmen distance runners,
Steve Maltas and Fivos Constantinou had to sit so as not to risk further
injury. There is no question MIT will need these guys if they hope to win the
next two meets.

On the positive side, Nate Ball returned to competition with a 14-6 effort in
the pole vault and showed he is very close to clearing 15' again. Tom Hoover
showed some of last year's form with a leap of 21-4 3/4 in the long jump
(losing out to Mielcarz by virtue of the 2nd best jump), clearing 5-9 in the
high jump and placing 5th in the 400 and 3rd in the 200.

Additional winning efforts came from three other techmen. Craig Wildman in the
3000 with a personal best of 9:03.0. David Blau took advantage of Traina's
absence to win the 200 in a best of 24.08. Austin Neudecker, expected to win
the triple jump, did just that with a 43-4 1/2 performance.

Next week, in addition to Williams visiting MIT, RPI and Westfield State will
join to make a very interesting quad-meet in Cambridge. The men will begin
competition at 12:00, while the women will start their meet at 3:30.

RETURN TO INDOOR


