


  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**VARSITY DOMINATE ALUMNI IN ANNUAL INDOOR CONTEST**

2010-11 Women's Program Presented Vercauteren Award

January 7, 2012

The Has-Beens came into town ready to make some noise in the annual Indoor
Track and Field Alumni/ae Meet, but the talent and depth of the Varsity squads
was just too much as the men defeated the old guys 87 to 30 and the women took
first place honors by a score of 92-30.

Before the start of the meet, Sam Seemes, the CEO of the United States Track &
Field, Cross Country Coaches Association (USTFCCCA), presented the Vercauteren
Award to the Women's program for earning the distinction of Best Program in
the Country for Division III by virtue of their combined NCAA Division III
finishes of third in Cross Country, third in Indoor Track & Field and fourth
in Outdoor Track & Field.

Josh Duncavage '13 won three events, running 6.61 in the 55 meter dash, 8.05
in the 55HH (both PR's), and 22.92 in the 200, to lead the current day
Engineers to victory. Supporting Duncavage in his victories were Michael
DuPlessis '14 in the dash, running 6.65 for second place and a nice personal
best; Brian Djaja '13 in the 55HH with a third place 8.12; and Tyler Singer-
Clark '14 running 23.00 to edge out Zach Traina '05 for second place in the
200.

The Varsity's other big point man was freshman, Sheldon Trotman. Trotman
started by taking the High Jump with a personal best of 6-3 1/4. He then went
over to the Long Jump and won that on his first jump, a 21-6 effort to edge
out Stephen Morton '10. In the Triple Jump, Morton turned to tables with a
45-4 1/4 leap, forcing Trotman to settle for second in 42-11.

While he did not score a lot of points, CK Umachi '12 took down Uzoma Orji '06
in the 35lb. Weight Throw with a 62-7 1/4 throw to move up to second place on
the MIT top 10 list. Umachi had five throws over 60', with all of them right
down the middle. Umachi also earned a third place in the Shot Put, losing to
Orji and former teammate, Mitch Kelley '11, with a 43-10 3/4 put.

The Varsity won 11 of 13 events, showing quality as well as depth. Nathan
Peterson '12 took the Pole Vault at 15-5 despite a very short approach. Mac
Gager '14 led teammates Singer-Clark and Nick Diamantoni '15 to a 1-2-3 sweep
in the 400 from the slow section with an even split 52.63. Pat Marx '13 also
led a 1-2-3 sweep, winning the 800 in 2:01.02 over Chadd Kiggins '15 and Jared
Forman '13. Justin Bullock '14 continued the trend by leading Ben Mattocks '12
and Rick Paez '15 to a sweep in the Mile Run in a pedestrian 4:29.33. The
final victory was earned by Dan Harper '12, who yes, also led a sweep of Roy
Wedge '14 and Benji Xie '15 in the 5K in 15:27.14.

In addition to Orji's and Morton's 16 points, Omari Stephens '08 earned second
places in both the 55HH in 8.09 and the Pole Vault in 14-5 1/4. Kelley chipped
in three points for second place in the Shot Put, throwing 44-1 1/4 behind
Orji's 55-3 1/2. Craig Mielcarz '03 added two points for a tie for second
place in the High Jump when he cleared 6-1 1/4. Traina also earned third place
in the 55 dash, contributing two points. Chris Bateman '07 added a point for
his third place finish in the Long Jump.

In the women's meet, Portia Jones '12 led the way for the Varsity as she
duplicated Duncavage's victories with first place efforts in the 55HH, 55
Meter Dash and 200 Meter Dash. In the 55HH she led Jacqui Brew '14 (8.76) and
Jackie Konopka '14 (9.14) to a 1-2-3 sweep with her 8.48 effort. In the 55
Dash, she again led Brew (7.62) as well as Madeleine Bairey '15 (7.64) to a
sweep with her 7.51 performance. The 200 was more of the same as Jones's 26.20
blew everyone away, including teammates, Jamie Simmons in second place in
27.20 as well as Bairey in third in 27.48.

Brew added points by winning the Long Jump in 16-5 3/4 and earning a second
place in the Triple Jump in 33-8 3/4 behind freshman teammate Michelle
Johnson's 34-1 3/4. Kristine Bunker '14, not only won the High Jump in an MIT
record of 5-3 1/4, but she also added a third place in the Shot Put in 29-4.
Bunker led the sweep in that High Jump competition over teammates Preethi
Vaidyanathan and Konopka. Simmons also earned five points for the victory in
the 400 in 60.56. Claiming victory in the 20 lb. Weight Throw, freshman Ashley
Wheeler threw a respectable 33-5 3/4.

MIT added two more sweeps in the running events. In the 800, Cindy Huang '15
took first place honors in 2:26.65 over teammates Margaret Coad '15 and
Stephanie Marzen '15 for a freshman sweep. Elaine McVay '15, held on to win
the 5K and lead the sweep despite a foolish 37 second first 200. McVay's
overall time was 18:15.88 while teammate Dacie Manion '15 was close behind in
18:22.20 and Maggie Lloyd '12 closed out the sweep in 18:52.55.

The biggest highlight for the Alumnae came in the Pole Vault where they earned
a sweep of their own as Karin Fisher '11 led Hazel Briner '11 and Emily Hwang
'09 with her 11-11 3/4 performance. Briner added a victory of her own, taking
the Shot Put in 31-11 1/4. She also scored three points for a second place in
the 20 lb. Weight Throw, one point for her third place in the Long Jump and
ran the key second leg of the 4x200 that gave the Has-Beens the lead for good.
Fisher added a third place finish in the Triple Jump at 32-11.

Andrea Bradshaw '09 earned 7 1/4 points for the Alumnae with a very
unconventional triple. AB started with a convincing Mile Run victory in
5:13.53, came back two events later to earn a very close third in the 400 in
62.26 and then anchored the winning 4x200 team to victory in the final event
of the meet.

Other competing alums who did not score were: Akin Aina '95, Gihan
Amarasiriwardena '11, Obinna Anyanwu '09, Hemagiri Arumugam '10, Patrick
Barragan '08, David Blau '06, Jack Bourbonnais '09, Logan Daum '11, Eric
Khatchadourian '06, Nick Leonard '11, Terry McNatt '87, Peter Mulligan '08,
Jake Ruzevick '09, Bill Singhose '90, Ben Schmeckpeper '05, and Victor
Williamson '04 for the men, and Kirstin Aarsvold '11, Caroline Figgatt '11,
Lynn Jepsen '11, Adeline Kuo '02, Crystal Ray '04, Alisha Schor '07 and Becky
Stavely '11. Those in attendance in a supporting role were Hana Adaniya '07,
Javit Drake '94, Alina Gatowski '11, John "Bo" Light '96, Dave Reshef '08, Joe
Roy Mayhew '08, Don Shobrys '75 and Bob Walmsley '84

Next Saturday, the Engineers play host to Bates College and Colby College
starting at noon.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**MEN DEFEAT BOSTON UNIVERSITY, WOMEN TAKE DOWN NORTHEASTERN IN THE BATTLE OF
BEANTOWN**

February 3, 2012

The last time MIT Track & Field had a regular season scoring meet against
Boston University, Harvard and Northeastern, It was 2002 and MIT was more
dominant than all but Northeastern. Each indoor season during those early
years last decade, MIT's men's program regularly defeated BU and Harvard.
Since that time, both programs have new coaching staffs and their teams
reflect those changes. The seeds going into the Battle of Beantown clearly had
MIT finishing last for both men and women, substantially so. Knowing that many
teams do not always perform to their seeds and understanding that
outperforming seeds is the expectation at MIT, Tech went across the river to
do battle at Harvard's Gordon Fieldhouse.

MIT demonstrated an exceptionally competitive spirit by most of their
competitors, enough to set two varsity records, three rookie records, numerous
personal bests and overcome their seeds to the degree the men were able to
defeat Boston University and the women took down Northeastern University in a
really close score. The final scores for the men were Harvard 191,
Northeastern 156.5, MIT 93, and Boston University 66.5. Harvard also won the
women's meet, scoring 196 to 176 for Boston University, 70 for MIT and 67 for
Northeastern.

Two things were evident very early on in the meet; first, that Harvard had a
very deep and strong team relative to the competition, and two, that many of
the seeds submitted were not very accurate as MIT was outscoring their
predicted score by a large margin.

The star for MIT in the men's meet had to be Josh Duncavage '13. He had his
best meet ever, setting personal bests in the 60 Meter Dash, the 60HH and the
200. Duncavage also anchored the 4x440 relay, closing with a relatively slow
51.0. In the 60 Meter Dash, Duncavage placed fourth in 6.99, easily an MIT
record and the conversion would be well under the varsity record for 55
Meters. In the 60HH, Duncavage again placed fourth in his best hurdle race
ever, finishing in 8.49, which would convert to a sub 8.00 in the 55HH. In the
200, he finished second, and would have won if he had an outside lane. His
22.35 was a personal best, missing out on first place by .01.

Tech had two winners in the meet; CK Umachi '12 took the Weight Throw at 61' 9
1/2", and Pat Marx '13 took the 500 Meter race in 1:05.36.

One of the most exciting races for the men was the 3K. Dan Harper '12, Allen
Leung '15, Roy Wedge '14 and Benji Xie '15 ran together, working the race
hard. Xie led the way for the Tech runners for most of the race, somewhat
reluctant to make a big move to pull away from his teammates. Both Leung and
Xie, mostly trying to score points for MIT, were also hoping to take down the
rookie 3K record held by Bob Walmsley '84. Coming through the mile in 4:36,
the foursome were on their way to a strong time. The pace slowed slightly to
70 second pace until Harper made a move in the final lap, closing in 32
seconds to claim fourth overall in 8:38.08. Leung took fifth and the rookie
record in 8:38.39. Wedge closed out the scoring with a sixth place 8:38.65.
Xie, doing most of the work, paid the price as he finished one place out of
scoring with his seventh place 8:39.19.

There were a few other great marks for the men. Nathan Peterson '12 set a
season best in the Pole Vault, claiming second place at 15' 9". Justin Bullock
'14 ran a personal best in the Mile Run, placing sixth in 4:14.64.

The women had the talent, but just not enough depth to compete with Harvard
and Boston University. Portia Jones '12 earned two second places and anchored
the 4x440 relay team to a season best 3:57.01. In the 400, Jones lost the
break and that sealed the race, as she stayed in second the entire race,
finishing in 57.13. In the 200, Jones had the inside lane, nearly guaranteeing
she could not win. However, she did claim second, avenging her loss in the
400.

Jamie Simmons '12 crushed the MIT varsity record by three seconds in the 500
meter run, finishing in second place with a 1:15.79. Simmons added a 58.6
leadoff leg in the 4x440 relay. Also in the 500, Kristine Bunker '14, after
placing fourth in the High Jump at 5' 2 1/2", ran her first 500, moving into
MIT's top 10 list in that event with a 1:22.70.

Jackie Brew '14, had a big sprint day. First she ran to a personal best 7.96
in the 60 Meter Dash. She then ran 9.12 in the 60HH, currently tied for 14th
on the NCAA Division III list. Brew also left the Triple Jump to run a 60.2
relay leg on the 4x440.

Cindy Huang '15, claimed fifth place in the 800 with a 2:17.84, good for a new
MIT Rookie Record. Also running personal bests in the 800 were Alexandra
Taylor '14, placing sixth in 2:19.79 and Margaret Coad '15, running 2:20.20.

Louise van den Heuvel '14, having hip pain after Tuesday's workout, and
doubting her ability to race, put the worries aside and simply raced. In the
Mile Run, she mixed it up with the leaders, coming through the first 440 in 72
seconds. Never backing off, van den Heuvel closed well to finish in a PR
5:00.07, good for fifth place and number five on the NCAA list. A little over
an hour later, she returned to run a PR in the 1000 with a 2:58.91 for fourth
place. Also in those races, Stephanie Marzen '15 ran a PR of 5:09.36 in the
Mile Run, and Maggie Lloyd '12 dropped down in distance to claim sixth in the
1000 with a huge PR of 3:00.88.

Elaine McVay '15 and Dacie Manion '15 teamed up in the 3K to run a phenomenal
race. McVay pushed the pace the entire race, coming through the mile in 5:20
and continued to push, getting outkicked in the final 400, but finishing in
third with a new MIT Varsity and Freshman record of 10:05.97. Manion closed
fast with a 38 final 200 to claim fourth and also run under the MIT Varsity
and Freshman record with her 10:08.27.

Lauren Kuntz '13 moved up on the NCAA list to ninth place with her 11' 11 3/4"
second place finish in the Pole Vault. Also in the vault, Joanna Chen '15 had
a PR of 10-11 3/4.

Michelle Johnson '15 added a point in the Triple Jump, punching a PR of 36' on
her final attempt.

Not placing, but throwing a huge, and significant personal best, Ashley
Wheeler '15 continued to surprise with a 40' 2 3/4" performance in the Weight
Throw.

Next week, MIT again splits up the team, sending some top athletes to Boston
University for the Valentine's Meet, while most field event athletes will be
back at MIT for their final meet prior to the New England Division III
Championship.

RETURN TO INDOOR  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**PETERSON VAULTS 16' 10 " TO CLAIM ECAC VICTORY AND VARSITY RECORD**

WOMEN WIN CHAMPIONSHIP, LED BY TWO VARSITY AND ONE FRESHMAN RECORD

March 2-3, 2012

This weekend Tech Track & Field made the trip to New York City to compete at
the ECAC Division III Championship being held at the New Balance Armory. Some
of the men's team stayed in Boston to compete at the IC4A Championship, which
is a men's only organization and mostly made up of Division I teams.

This weekend across the country, all the meets are only about trying to
qualify individuals and relay teams for the NCAA Division III Championship
next weekend. MIT's purpose was no different. In order to make the NCAA
Division III Championship field next weekend an individual must be among the
top 13 in their event for the men and top 15 for the women. Relays teams must
be ranked among the top 10 declared teams to make it in.

With this in mind the Engineers took to the track and runways. Kristine Bunker
'14 started things off with her bid to make the national field in the
Pentathlon. Bunker did not have a strong outing in the first sub-event, the
60HH, running 10.48, a good bit slower than her 10.15 best. She won her next
two sub-events, throwing 35-10 in the Shot Put and jumping a new MIT record of
5-4 1/4 in the High Jump. The Long Jump sub-event would be the key, and
unfortunately, Bunker was only able to go 13-11. Even though she ran a
fantastic 2:23.87, a six second PR and scored a total of 3123 points, it was
not enough to get her another week of competition, but it was good enough for
third place.

The 60HH trials were next up for the Engineers. Portia Jones '12 and Jackie
Brew '14 were both in the third and final heat, and both came through big.
Jones won the heat, tying her personal best of 8.82 and Brew ran a new PR of
8.88 to move up for a tie on the NCAA list at 11th place. Jones and Brew had
the fastest two times in the trials.

In the women's Pole Vault, Lauren Kuntz '13 was the only MIT representative.
She looked good early and cleared 11-5 3/4 with no problems, but was unable to
clear 11-11 3/4, leaving her in a tie for eighth place in the meet, and tied
at 13th on the NCAA list. She owns the tie-breaker and now must sit and wait
to see what happens on Saturday, the final day anyone can qualify for the
National Championship.

In the Triple Jump, Michelle Johnson '15 had a very good day. She made the
finals and jumped 36-5 1/2, very close to her personal best, but not quite
enough to score, missing out by one place. Johnson had a remarkable freshman
season, improving her best mark by over two feet.

In the 5K, Elaine McVay '15 and Claire O'Connell '14 were hoping for different
goals. McVay, 12th on the NCAA list entering the meet, was hoping to win the
event and move up on the list, while O'Connell was on a roll after an early
season injury and wanted to try to break 18 minutes. McVay had to take the
lead early on because the pace slowed, but then others move to the front to
shoulder the burden, so the pace stayed honest. McVay was hoping to run 5:30
per mile and was slightly ahead at the mile mark, coming through in 5:27. The
second mile slowed a bit, putting her right on at 11:00. However, fatigue
started to set in, and the pace continued to slow although she was leading and
had pulled away from all but one runner. The 4800 split was 16:36 for a 5:36
third mile. She was passed but still held on for a 41 final 200 to finish in
second at 17:17.43, a new personal best. Even though she moved up on the list
one spot for her new time, two more passed her, moving her to 13th entering
the final day of competition. O'Connell was unable to hold the 85 second pace
goal after the first mile, running 5:54 and then 5:02, finishing in 18:19.04
showing the fatigue from moving up her mileage to prepare for the outdoor
season.

The Distance Medley Relay (DMR) was the final event of the first day for the
women. MIT was trying to put together a faster team than ran the 11:51.33
earlier in the season. Louise van den Heuvel '14 moved from her normal 1600
leg to the leadoff 1200 leg. She was immediately pushed to the rear, but ran
well to take the lead before the 800 mark, coming though in 2:23. However, at
this point she faded, coming in at 3:38, far from what she is capable of.
Martha Gross '12, ran an excellent 58.0 leg as she moved MIT up to third
place. Cindy Huang '15 was game, but had a difficult time shaking off the 12+
hours of sleep from the night before and struggled to run 2:19.4. Brook
Johnson '13, looking good after a long comeback effort from injury, tried to
make up too much ground too quickly, running the first 400 in 70. She slowed
as she joined the lead pack, coming through the 800 in 2:27. The slowing trend
continued as she fell off the back of the leaders, eventually getting passed
by another team and finishing sixth in 12:00.15. Her split was a respectable
5:04.9.

The men had few representatives since most were back at IC4A's. Nathan
Peterson '12 did all he could to carry the team and succeeded by winning the
Pole Vault in a jump-off, successfully clearing 16-10, a new MIT record.
During the competition, he was clean (making first attempts) all the way
through 16-5 1/4. Three were tied at that point, going for a meet record 17'.
Through three attempts, no one made it, but Peterson was very close. Being
tied, all three attempted a fourth try at the height, but none made it. Going
down to 16-10, Peterson was the only one to make it, winning the event. This
puts Peterson fourth on the NCAA list.

Dan Harper '12 and Allen Leung '15 represented MIT in the 5K. Harper's goal
was to stay with the leaders, hoping to run sub 14:40. The early pace was
solid, hitting the first 1600 in 4:40. The 3200 pace was right on as well, but
Harper could not stay with the leaders, falling back a bit to 9:25. Still with
time to pull it off, he could not force himself to go for it, constantly
thinking whether or not he could hold the pace. Instead he slowed to a 4:53,
putting him out of reach of his goal. Harper finished in 14:51.79. Leung just
did not have the strength and confidence to go with the leaders. He was in the
rear running 4:41, which took too much out of him. He began to slow
dramatically after the half way point, ending his season with a 15:22.28.

Day two started with the 60HH Final. Jones and Brew warmed up early and were
the third of three hurdle finals (Men's Hep. 60HH, Men's Final 60HH and
Women's Final 60HH) and sat around a little longer than they should have,
losing some of the effect of their warmup. Brew got off to a great start while
Jones stumbled. Brew led start to finish while Jones tried to make up ground.
By the finish Brew was out front in 8.94, her second fastest time ever, while
Jones made it up to third in 9.01.

Johnson was up again in the open Mile Run, hoping to break 5:00. However, the
fastest seed in her section was 5:09, so she was not going to get much
assistance. The first quarter was out at a good pace, running 74. Johnson was
forced to take the lead as the pace slowed, still able to come through in 2:30
at the half. Now she was totally on her own, having dropped the field, but was
not able to maintain the goal pace. Her three quarter split was 3:48 and final
time a season best 5:07.40.

Jamie Simmons '12 and Gross were in the 400 looking to improve their season
bests. Gross was in the second of three sections. She had a slow reaction to
the start and never really got going in the first 200, splitting 27.8. She ran
an aggressive second 200 to move into second at the finish, timing a season
best 59.11. Simmons, racing in the fast section, also got out slow, almost too
slowly, splitting 27.5, but finishing very hard, catching the leader at the
line to win the event in 56.64.

In the 800, both Huang and van den Heuvel were hoping to improve their mark.
van den Heuvel was up first. She got up front the way she was supposed to and
looked very competitive. Her first 200 was a little fast, running 32.8, but
things slowed a lot as the 400 split crawled by in 68.6. The pace picked up
again slightly to 1:42.4, but she had fallen off from the leader. Her final
200 was 35, giving her an overall time of 2:17.41. Huang was in the fast
section and the pace was quick. Her first quarter from the back third of the
pack was 32.3 and 65.2. A great effort, but a little too fast at this point in
her career. She came through the 600 in a PR of 1:38.5, but her final 200 was
38 to give her a final time of 2:16.33 and seventh place.

Preethi Vaidyanathan '15 and Bunker competed and tried to improve their rank
in the High Jump. Although Bunker did not have the legs she had on day one,
she did manage to clear 5-0 1/2. Vaidyanathan cleared 5-2 1/2 for eighth place
and had a very close attempt at 5-5.

Benji Xie '15 tried one more time for the freshman record in the 3000 and came
very close again. Starting the race in 68 second quarters, he was in a groove
but then was in a group that got separated from the lead pack before he
realized it. The pace had slowed to 70 for two quarters and he just could not
speed up even though he bridged the gap between groups. He closed well but
missed the record by two seconds with his 8:40.70.

Jackie Brew was about to enter the finals of the Long Jump at the same time as
she was needed for the 4x400 Relay. The 4x400 took precedence as they were
currently ranked fourth on the NCAA list and at the NCAA Championship, the
4x400 is run as sections on time with only four teams making it into the fast
section. If one team were to pass MIT on the list they would no longer be in
the fast section, so it was decided they had to play this offensively and go
for a faster time. Simmons surpassed her open victory with a 55.9 leadoff leg
to give MIT an insurmountable lead. Brew ran a 58.8 leg despite not much of a
warmup to extend the lead slightly. Gross hammered a 58.5 to again increase
the lead a bit and then Jones brought it home with a 56.0 to total a new ECAC
and MIT record of 3:49.28. Another team from the Midwest did end up surpassing
MIT's old time, but with the new time MIT is now in a solid second place
ranking.

As MIT was leaving the building it was announced the women had won the meet
with 56 points. The men only had the 10 scored by Peterson, placing in a tie
for 27th.

MIT will take eight men and between six to eight women to the NCAA Division
III Indoor Track and Field Championship in Grinnell, Iowa next weekend.

RETURN TO INDOOR  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**SECOND FASTEST DMR IN NCAA DIVISION III HISTORY**

March 3, 2012

MIT sent seven individuals to the prestigious IC4A Championship, hosted by
Boston University. CK Umachi '12 was entered in the Weight Throw, Sam Parker
'15 and Chadd Kiggins '15 in the 800, and the DMR team of Justin Bullock '14,
Tyler Singer-Clark '14, Pat Marx '13 and Kyle Hannon '13.

Kiggins and Parker were looking to run in the low 1:52 range in hopes of
getting into the top 13 ranking for the NCAA Division III Championships next
weekend. Kiggins was up first, and was fortunate to be in a fast heat.
However, he never made a move when he needed to. He came through splits of
27.5, 56.0 and 1:24.8 before finishing in 1:55.93. Parker's heat was just as
fast, coming through in very similar splits of 27.6, 56.1 and 1:25.2. Parker
made a move but did so too late, having too much left when he crossed the line
in 1:54.22.

Umachi threw well in the trials, making the finals easily. Having no fouls,
Umachi placed third with a throw of 62-3.

The DMR could not afford to rest on their 9:55.71 performance, as it was
ranked seventh on the NCAA Division III list and only 10 teams would be
selected. Typically, a few teams run qualifying times on the final day.
Loading up the team with their best possible foursome, the Engineers went for
the best time possible in the trials on Saturday since Division III does not
take qualifying times after this day. Bullock led off with a strong 1200 leg
of 3:01.6, but was significantly behind New Hampshire and Penn. Singer-Clark
ran an amazing 48.2 to close the gap and put MIT into second place. Marx not
only caught the leader, but put 25 meters on the field with his 1:51.6. Hannon
did was you are supposed to do in a relay when you have the lead--do not let
them think they are catching you. He dropped a 59.5 and 2:02.5 to discourage
anyone trying to close the gap. Not letting up, he finished in 4:07.5 to give
MIT the heat win, fastest time in the trials and the second fastest time in
NCAA Division III history with a 9:49.45.

MIT will take eight men to the NCAA Division III Championship being hosted by
Grinnell College, March 9-10.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**19 ALL AMERICA HONORS ARE THE HIGHLIGHT AT NCAA'S**

March 9-10, 2012

MIT's Track & Field team started the NCAA Division III Indoor Track & Field
Championship in the best possible way at the Awards banquet on Thursday night.
Lauren Kuntz '13 won the Elite 89 Award, which is given to the student-athlete
competing at the National Championship with the highest GPA on a 4.0 scale.
If there is a tie it goes to the student-athlete with the most units earned.
Kuntz has a perfect GPA in Mechanical Engineering.  
  
MIT made it a sweep with Kyle Hannon '13 earning the same award for the men.
Hannon has a 3.92 converted GPA in Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science.  Hannon also won the award last indoors, making him the first in
track and field to win the award twice.  
  
This also marks the first time the same program has won both awards.  To have
the highest GPA's at this championship, from arguably the most challenging
academic institution, and to be participating at this NCAA Championship with a
strong chance of earning All America honors speaks more about the quality of
the MIT program than anything else they do, and is a true measure of success.

Kuntz also led things off for the women in the meet, competing in the Pole
Vault. She cleared 11-3 3/4 on her first attempt. Seeded in a tie for 13th,
Kuntz was hoping for the magic that earned her All America honors last year
indoors and outdoors. However, at 11-9 3/4 it was not meant to be as she
missed all three attempts.

Nathan Peterson '12 was the first competitor for the men, competing in the
Pole Vault. Peterson passed the opening height of 15-3 1/4, at which one of
the 13 competitors was eliminated. At 15-9 1/4 Peterson cleared on his first
attempt. Three more went out at that height, leaving 10 in the competition.
Peterson missed his first attempt at 16-3 1/4, but cleared on the second
attempt. He started blowing through poles at 16-9 1/4, moving up a pole at
each attempt, but failed to clear even though he had plenty of height on his
final attempt. He earned fifth place, matching his NCAA place from 2011.

CK Umachi '12 was competing at the same time in the Weight Throw. Umachi threw
in the second flight, starting off with a 61-11 3/4, moving him into fifth
place overall. He had four fair throws and three of them were within four
centimeters of each other. He was passed by one other thrower, earning sixth
place overall and his first All America award.

Portia Jones '12 and Jackie Brew '14 were up in Tech's first running event,
the 60HH. Jones was in the first heat. After a false start eliminated one
competitor, the race was started fairly. Jones got a somewhat poor start, but
was still in reasonable shape at the first hurdle. She did not block her lead
arm on that hurdle and came off of it a little off balance. She was fine on
the other hurdles with the exception of hitting the fourth hurdle. She
finished third in her heat at 8.95. Brew had an excellent start and ran a very
sound technical race for her, but just was not fast enough, missing the finals
by .01 at 8.96. Jones was the final qualifier for the final.

Jamie Simmons '12 was in the very next event, the 400, along with Jones.
Simmons was in lane six, a good advantage knowing how much the tight turns
affect her. She did not have a great start but was in pretty good shape at the
200 mark in 26.9. She tried to maintain her momentum and pass on the turn, but
the turn was just too tight, not allowing her to do what she has been
successful at on the banked tracks. She put too much energy into the effort
and had little left for the final straight, finishing last in her heat at
57.96. Jones has done this double very successfully the past two Nationals,
but this time was different. Whether the results of the hurdles were still on
her mind, or her decision to pace the first 200 of the 400 put her in a very
poor position, is unknown, but the end result was certainly not what anyone
expected from the number one seed. She was last at the break, about 15-20
meters behind the leaders. At this point she totally gave up, finishing last
in the competition in 59.44.

In the men's 800, Sam Parker '15 represented MIT. Parker was the last seed in
the competition, so any experience would be a positive one. He ran an
outstanding race through the first 600 meters, staying in the top five of the
seven man heat. At the 600 mark it appeared he did not make a key move, the
group separated and he was in the back with two others. He tied up badly in
the final 150, struggling home in 1:57.86.

The final event on day one was the Distance Medley Relay, and MIT was
represented by the men and women. Only the fastest 10 teams in the country
were selected, so just being in the race was quite an accomplishment. The men
were first and had hopes of winning the race after last weekend's effort.
Justin Bullock '14 ran the leadoff 1200 leg. The pace was crisp, coming
through the 400 in 61.1. The pace slowed a bit, but Bullock was holding onto
2nd place at 2:04.4. Then the pace picked up and the leader from Bowdoin
College and Bullock pulled away. Bowdoin opened up a 10 meter lead at the
exchange and Bullock, at 3:04.1 had close to a 10 meter lead on the rest of
the field. Tyler Singer-Clark '14 went out hard in 23.3, but so did everyone
else. Coming into the final 100, Middlebury passed MIT, but Tech was still in
third and still about 10 meters behind. Pat Marx '13 caught the leaders on the
first backstretch, but then settled in instead of running as fast as he could.
By 400 meters the other teams were catching up. At 600 Marx started making his
move, and while he gave the baton to Kyle Hannon '13 with a one meter lead
with a 1:54. 5 split, Some teams had made up as much as 20 meters and now
seven of the 10 teams were in the hunt. Hannon opened up strong with a 60.1
400 trying to put some space between himself and the pack. This had no effect
and Hannon lost a little confidence. By the 800 mark Middlebury took the lead
and within the next 200 meters, Bowdoin and Wisconsin Steven's Point would
also pass Hannon, although the 1200 split was 3:12.5 for MIT. In the final 400
Bates College passed MIT but then Hannon shut the door, closing with a very
respectable 61.0 final 400 to give MIT fifth place.

Brooke Johnson '13 led off the women's team. She was in the outside alley and
was confused about where to cut in. After running one turn too many in lane
four, she cut in and still had a much too fast 33.4 split. She did not back
off, staying with the main pack, which was far behind the two leaders from
Washington University in St. Louis and Middlebury. In the middle of the 1200
Johnson allowed her 400 from the 600-1000 mark to slow to 77, but she closed
with a 32 final 200 to put MIT in sixth place. Martha Gross '12 took the
handoff and made a great effort to close the gap, but all the teams had strong
400 legs. Even though she split a 59.7, she faded, or slowed at the end,
putting MIT in seventh and lost a lot of ground on the handoff. Cindy Huang
'15, a little too nervous, closed too quickly, splitting 29.7 for the first
200 of her 800 leg. This caught her up to the third through sixth teams in a
hurry. She came through the 400 in 62.8, staying with the field. The pace
slowed to a 36 third 200 and then a 38 final 200 for Huang as the others
pulled away. She did move MIT back to sixth at the handoff, running a very
respectable 2:16.7 leg. Louise van den Heuvel '14 tried to make up the gap
quickly and did a very good job by running a 70.7 first 400. However, even
with the fast 400, she lost a place and did not catch the group until after
that initial first 400. By the 600 mark she had moved into fourth place and
was continuing to push, running a 2:25.1 first 800. In the third quarter, two
of the teams passed her back but she stayed with them. In the final 400, van
den Heuvel surged to move back into fifth with 100 to go and held onto fifth
place with a 4:57.0 1600 to give the team an overall time of 11:53.85.

MIT did not have a lot going on for day two. Jones, who made the finals in the
60HH was up first for the Engineers. Continuing her slump from day one, Jones
got a slow start and just did not seem to be able to sprint. She finished
eighth in 8.99.

Freshman, Elaine McVay, made her the 5,000 field, and although she was seeded
13th, she raced to place. The initial pace was very slow, 88 at the 400, as no
one wanted to commit to leading. The pace picked up, coming through the 1600
in 5:39, and continued to go faster, producing a 5:27 second 1600. The pack
began to separate and McVay was fighting to stay in contention to score.
However, she was only able to produce 87 second quarters in the final 1600,
falling to 10th place in 17:35.46.

Both the men and women had 4x400 teams that had qualified and those were the
final events of the meet. The men were first, running in the slower section of
the two section final. Ten teams were racing for eight scoring places and the
team of Singer-Clark, Mac Gager '14, Parker and Marx wanted this badly.
Singer-Clark ran a great leadoff, splitting 23.0 and 49.7 to put MIT in third
position. Gager ran a very aggressive 50.0 to keep MIT in third until the
handoff when it was virtually a three way tie for second. Parker took over the
baton duties, but just did not have the speed to hang with the top 400
runners. He fell back to fifth at the 100 mark, but held on to keep MIT in it,
with a 51.2 split. Marx took off on the anchor leg, closing ground quickly. By
the 200 mark, Marx had caught the pack with his 22.7 split. As he looked for
an opportunity to pass coming into the final straight he had to swing wide and
simply ran out of real estate, missing fourth by .02. The 3:19.74 was very
fast for the tight-turned track. The fast section produced two really fast
times, but the other three teams were slower than MIT and the lead team in the
slow section was disqualified due to running inside the lane line, placing MIT
sixth.

The women were in the fast section and were hoping for a salvation from a
rather disappointing meet. Simmons got out very well, putting MIT in second
place at the handoff with an excellent 57.3 split. Brew took off, committed to
staying with the leader. Unfortunately this required a 26.0 200, which all but
wiped Brew out. Her final 100 was painful to watch, but she was still in third
at the handoff, having run a 58.7 split. The momentum of the fourth place team
was better going into the handoff and they passed Jones at the handoff. Jones
dropped a 26.2 to try to get around the two teams she was with, but could not
do so. In the final straight she was passed again, giving MIT fifth place in
the section and fifth overall since all times in the slower section were
indeed slower.

The men finished with 14 points and in 14th place out of the 100+ colleges
represented and the 60 scoring teams. The women scored nine points to tie for
21st place. While the point totals were not what the Engineers were looking
for, 19 All America honors, 10 for the men and nine for the women, was a
record high for MIT.

The team will begin the task of improving in the outdoor championships this
May. A hard week of training in California in two weeks will be the beginning
of that process.

RETURN TO INDOOR  
  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**MEN LOSE DUNCAVAGE, FAIL TO THREE-PETE** IN NEW ENGLAND DIVISION III
CHAMPIONSHIP

February 18, 2012

The Men's Indoor Track and Field team represented MIT this weekend at the New
England Division III Championship, hosted by Springfield College. The
Engineers had won the previous two indoor championships and were hoping for a
third. However, Bates College, winning their first ever New England Division
III Track and Field title, proved to be too strong, while MIT had an injury to
their top sprinter/hurdler and had some poor performances and an unfortunate
handoff to make the comeback too much for the Engineers as they finished
second among the 40+ teams with 95 points to 103 for Bates.

The men's field events started off with the Weight Throw. CK Umachi '12
entered the competition with the top seed and Jeremy Sharpe '13 was seeded
15th out of 19, and not expected to score. In order for Sharpe to make finals
he would need to win his flight and beat two throwers from the second flight.
On his third throw he delivered a big personal best of 51-10, clinching the
flight win and a spot in finals where he finished eighth overall for one
point. CK´s dominance in the Weight Throw was challenged from the start from
David Pless from Bates, throwing 2 cm farther and the top spot going into
finals. On CK´s first throw in finals he demonstrated his ability with a throw
of 63-7.5 and a facility record. Pless from Bates then had a 3´ PR throwing
62-10, but was not able to match CK´s throw, giving MIT 11 points.  
  
The next event was the High Jump. MIT had two jumpers competing, Matthew Falk
'12 and John Thomas '15.  Falk was not having a good day, but Thomas was able
to make the first three heights on his first attempt, clearing 6-2.25. The bar
moved to 6-4.25 and only two of the remaining eleven jumpers cleared the
height, giving Thomas an unexpected third place tie and five points.  
  
In the Pole Vault competition MIT entered three vaulters, Benjamin Schreck
'15, Cory Monroe '13 and Nathan Peterson '12. Monroe had a gallant effort,
vaulting 13-11.25 and season best on his first meet back after recovering from
a severe ankle sprain, but placed 11th. Peterson made his first two vaults
over 14-11 and 15-5 on his first attempts, clearing the bar easily.  The bar
moved to 15-11 and three jumpers remained. Peterson was unable to find his
rhythm and finished second overall.  
  
The Triple Jump was represented by Jackson Wirekoh '13. In only his second
meet of the indoor season, Wirekoh jumped 44-3.25 and a tie for eighth place
going into finals. He was unable to improve in the finals, but won the tie for
eighth place. His next best jump was better then the other jumper giving MIT
one needed point.

In the running events, Josh Duncavage '13 had a busy start to his day
advancing to the finals of all three sprint races, running 8.65 for the 60m
hurdles, 7.06 in the 60m and 22.70 in the 200m, although in the 200 he backed
off significantly as he felt his hamstring tug a little, though he kept this
news to himself. Tyler Singer-Clark '14 gave Tech a 2nd runner in the 200
meter finals with a superb 22.64 trial.

The first final race of the day was the mile. With the unseeded section won in
4:14 the fast section could not afford to hesitate. Justin Bullock '13 got
right to the front of the pack and made a strong move into the lead with 500m
to go. Bowdoin soph Coby Horowitz passed Bullock with 120 meters to go, but
Bullock hung on strong for second place and a PR of 4:14.39.  

Duncavage's first final of the day was the 60m hurdles, in which he placed 7th
in 8.64. Not his best performance, but he is still working on his mechanics on
top of the hurdle, particularly his trail leg.

Next up was the 400 meters and MIT was not seeded to score any points with
Singer-Clark entering the meet as the 10th seed. He got out faster than he has
all season and placed second in his section in 50.35 behind event winner Ben
Scheetz of Amherst. Singer-Clark and his teammates anxiously watched the fast
section to see how many would beat his time. Fortunately only two of the six
runners in the seeded section were able to beat his time to give him a fourth
place finish.

In the 600 MIT was only seeded to score a couple of points but were confident
they would move up several spots. Mac Gager '13 placed second in his heat in a
PR of 1:23.94 to earn eighth place overall. Junior Pat Marx dove across the
line in the seeded heat to place second in a PR of 1:21.99.

Tech was hoping for big points from Duncavage in the 60m finals but his
hamstring did not hold. Early in the race it looked as though he might win,
but with the injury he finished in sixth place in 7.50.  

In the 800 the Engineers sent out a couple of freshmen in Chadd Kiggins and
Sam Parker. Both got out well in a tightly packed race. Both remained in
contention with 150 to go when Kiggins made a move to the lead. Only Bates
junior James LePage was able to go with Kiggins and was able to out lean
Kiggins by .09. Kiggins took second in 1:55.86. Parker hung on for eighth in
1:57.57.

MIT was seeded to place well in the 1000 with five of the top 10 seeds in the
event but when NCAA 800 meter champ and 4:03 miler Ben Scheetz of Amherst took
the race out quickly none of our guys responded well. With several runners in
the unseeded section running fast times the late race kicks of Bullock 2:32.63
and senior Stephen Serene 2:32.99 only moved them up to seventh and eithth
place overall. For the second year in succession, the 1000 runners failed to
take advantage of the opportunity, losing 20 points in seeds.

MIT should have been looking to score big points in the 200 final but with a
hamstring pull in his previous event Duncavage was only able to walk the
finals to pick up what we hoped would be a valuable eighth place point.
Singer-Clark continued his strong day by placing third in his heat and fourth
overall in 22.73.  

In the 3K frosh Benji Xie had a smart run in an odd race in which a
Springfield runner ran 30 seconds for the 1st 200m & held a big lead early.
Xie went through the 1600 in an even paced 4:35 and was in position to contend
for a top 3 place with 600 to go. However he just did not have another gear,
finishing 12th in 8:44.00  

The Engineers knew that they needed big points in the 5k. Dan Harper '12,
Allen Leung '15, and Roy Wedge '13 certainly gave it their best effort. All
three ran as a pack and were in the top five with 1200 to go. Harper pulled
away from the rest of the field and gained on the early leader to place second
in 15:01.62. Leung hung on for 10th in 15:11 but Wedge's legs gave out over
the last couple of laps to place 15th in 15:27 after being in top three
contention for most of the race.  

In the Distance Medley Relay, Logan Trimble '13 stayed close to the leaders
with his 3:09 leg, putting MIT in fifth place. David Way '13 moved up a bit
with his 52.5 leg and Serene ran a strong 1:59 leg to move Tech up to the
lead. Ben Mattocks '12 gave his team a shot at the win until the very end with
his strong 4:23 leg but he was being chased by the first and third place
finishers in the mile and was unable to hold them off, taking third place in a
solid 10:24.37.

The 4x400 team came in seeded second but they were not about to get beat in a
race this important to the team standings. Singer-Clark continued his strong
day by taking a solid lead with his 50.1 leg. Gager followed with a 51.0 and
Nick Diamantoni '15 ran a 51.9 leg to give anchor Pat Marx a lead to work
with. Runners from Williams and Tufts attempted to move up on Marx but he
kicked away coming off the final turn for a 50.6 leg and a 3:24.89 relay win.  

Tech went into the 4x800 relay trailing Bates by 3 points, knowing they had a
team that could get the job done but some unfortunate circumstances spoiled
the big duel. After Kiggins 1:58 leg it was just MIT and Westfield State in
the lead but after running into the Westfield runner who had just handed off,
Jared Forman '13 fell and dropped the baton. He jumped up pretty quickly but
by then MIT was in last place with a lot of ground to make up. Forman ended up
with a 2:05 leg. Parker got out strong, running splits of 27 and 56, but faded
to 1:58. Gil O'Neil fed off the MIT chants, moving up to as high as third
place with 70 meters to go before ending up sixth in their section and eighth
overall in 8:02.01. Bates finished third to ice the victory.

RETURN TO INDOOR  
  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**WOMEN MISS OPPORTUNITY AT CHAMPIONSHIP, FINISH SECOND**

February 18, 2012

The women's track team from MIT traveled to Smith College with high hopes of
winning their first indoor New England Division III title since 2009.
Finishing second in both 2010 and 2011 among the 40+ teams in the conference,
MIT felt all they had to do was deliver on their seeds and the championship
would be their's. A disqualification due to a lane line violation in the
Distance Medley Relay after the team had seemingly won the event, a small
handful of poor performances and a very impressive display of athletic desire
and ability by the Williams College team ended with a one point loss to
Williams, 143 to 142. The next closest team was Bowdoin at 72 points.

MIT started the meet on Friday with two entries in the Pentathlon, Kristine
Bunker '14 and Jackie Konopka '14. In the first event, Konopka ran a PR of
9.33 in the 60 meter hurdles to take the lead in the event. Bunker also ran a
PR, but she is relatively new to hurdling, so the 10.15 had her back in the
standings a bit. The High Jump was supposed to be Bunker's big event, but only
clearing 5-1 3/4, compared to her PR of 5-3 3/4 cost her about 60-70 points.
Bunker and Konopka were in very good shape after the Shot Put, but the Long
Jump hurt them both a lot. Konopka only went 15-1 1/4 and strained her
hamstring in the process. Bunker jumped 14-9 1/4. Both lost around 200 points
to the leaders. In the 800, Bunker ran a very competitive 2:29.22 to move up
to fourth place. Konopka somehow fought the pain of her hamstring and managed
a 2:37.19 to finish in sixth place. This was an excellent finish and both
surpassed their points that got them in the competition, but Williams College
had an athlete finish in second, putting the meet at a tie with each event
scoring eight places in a 10-8-6-5-4-3-2-1 format.

Day two began with the Triple Jump. Williams had the defending national
champion and two other jumpers seeded in the top eight and MIT had the eighth
seed, Michelle Johnson '15. The freshmen set numerous personal bests during
the competition, finishing with an MIT record of 36-10 1/4, good for sixth
place. Unfortunately Williams earned first, fourth and seventh to put MIT at a
14 point disadvantage. The next final was the Distance Medley Relay. Maggie
Lloyd '12, ran a great leg of 3:45 to put MIT in second place, near the
leader. Martha Gross '12 ran a superb 400 leg of 59.6 to keep MIT close.
Stephanie Marzen '15 ran 2:22.6 to keep MIT in good position close to the
leader. Dacie Manion '15 anchored for Tech and ran about a half mile, easily
taking the lead with a first half split of 2:31, when an official announced to
Coach Halston Taylor that Lloyd had committed a lane line violation twice,
disqualifying MIT. Even after telling Manion to slow down, that her team was
DQ'd, she still managed a 5:12, which gave MIT an unofficial 12:19. The loss
of the sure 10 points and allowing Williams to move up to fourth from fifth
was an 11 point difference.

The 5K was next, a big event for both MIT and Williams. Elaine McVay '15 ran a
wonderful race, placing third in 17:38.03. Teammates Tania Morimoto '12 and
Claire O'Connell '14 ran huge PR's of 17:52.75 and 18:04.43 respectively to
place sixth and eighth. However, Williams countered with first place, giving
both teams 10 points.

Still with a 25 point edge, the Long Jump was another big event for Williams.
MIT hoped to counter with Jackie Brew '14 and Veronica Szklarzewski '15.
Szklarzewski won her flight and made it to finals with a new PR of 16-11 1/2,
but was passed by three people in the final to end up in ninth, one place out
of the scoring. Brew fouled five of her six jumps, but still managed a fourth
place with a leap of 17-2 1/4, far from her best of 17-7. Williams placed
first and third to garner 16 points to MIT's five, giving them a 36 point
edge.

Two more field events were taking place at the same time, the Weight Throw and
the High Jump. MIT had no one in the Weight Throw, but Williams did and scored
six points. In the High Jump, MIT was seeded fourth and fifth, so was counting
on those points. However, neither Bunker, nor Preethi Vaidyanathan '15 matched
their previous bests. Bunker jumped 5-0 1/4 to tie for fifth, but
Vaidyanathan, who also cleared 5-0 1/4 did not place due to two early misses.
Williams scored eight surprise points, putting them up by 41.

MIT's signature event, the Pole Vault was another disappointment. The
Engineers were seeded to score nine with second and eighth place seeds while
Williams was seeded first for 10 points. When it was all over, Williams earned
second place while MIT earned sixth and eighth by Lauren Kuntz '14 and Marissa
Engle '15 respectively. Engle had a PR of 11-0, while Kate Wymbs '14 also
earned a PR at 10-6, although she finished one place out of the scoring.
Williams was now up by 45.

MIT's points were most definitely in the running events and they were very
pleased to see that only the Shot Put remained among the field events. In the
4x200, MIT set a school and meet record of 1:43.51. Portia Jones '12, Jackie
Brew '14, Martha Gross '12 and Jamie Simmons '12 led start to finish to give
MIT a much needed 10 points. Williams was a little over a second behind to
place third.

In the Mile Run, Louise van den Heuvel '14 seemed to forget how to race,
languishing in the rear of the pack and seemingly refusing to move up. In the
final 400 she finally made her move to earn fifth place in 5:02.18. Brooke
Johnson '13 and Stephanie Marzen '15 did not score. Williams however placed a
predicted third to build a 43 point lead.

The 60HH were next. Portia Jones did not feel recovered from her 4x200 relay,
but fortunately for MIT, Jackie Brew was recovered enough to place second to
Jones's third. Both were timed in 9.06 far off their trial times of 8.98 for
Brew and 8.89 for Jones. Tanasia Hoffler '13 of Williams, the winner of the
Long Jump and Triple Jump was off to a great start in the hurdles but fell,
causing her to finish eighth. This allowed MIT to finally make a dent in the
score, gaining 13 points to cut the lead to 30.

In the 400, the very next event, Jones was the second seed. She ran a well
paced race, but had too many to catch after entering the last lap in sixth
place. Her third place in 58.32 was supported by a marvelous run by Maddie
Bairey '15, placing sixth in 59.82 to give MIT nine points. Williams only
earned one point, making it a 22 point deficit.

Just as the Engineers were closing the gap, the results of the Shot Put came
in. Again, MIT had no entries, but Williams scored seven points, pushing the
lead back to 29.

In the 600, Simmons was not going to lose this event and you could see it in
her eyes. She trailed through the 200 and 400 marks at 29.9 and 61.7, before
moving past the leader to demolish her own MIT record, the facility record and
the meet record in 1:34.93. Williams did manage four points, but the lead was
again becoming manageable at 23 points.

Neither MIT nor Williams had much in the way of predicted points in the 60
Meter Dash, but Brew did make the final. Surprisingly, Brew ran a personal
best of 7.90 to place fourth and provide Tech with five more points, cutting
the lead to 18.

The 800 and 1000 needed to be big events for MIT because the upcoming 3K
promised to be huge for Williams. Cindy Huang '15 ran an excellent race in the
800, improving on her fourth place seed to finish in third in a new PR and
freshman record of 2:17.33. Alexandra Taylor '14 supported her team with a
sixth place finish in 2:20.83 to give MIT nine points and an 11 point deficit.
It was brief because while MIT was seeded to score nine more points in the
1000 and thought they might gain more because Margaret Coad '15 was bound to
score despite her 10th place seed, van den Heuvel again ran in the back, only
moving up at the end to pass Coad and give MIT fifth (3:00.07) and sixth place
(3:0028). In addition to Tech not getting their predicted points, Williams
earned a second place despite the slow time of 2:59.33. The meet was now a 10
point difference.

In the 200, Jones had not lost to a Division III opponent all season and MIT
was hoping for 10 big points. However, Jones drew lane three, which is a huge
disadvantage to the outside lanes. Getting out slower than usual, the gap
became too much to make up as Jones finished in second in 25.45. Brew gave MIT
a much needed point by securing eighth place in 26.34. Williams scrambled for
a key five points. The lead was now six.

The 3K was going to be the event that would decide the meet because Tech was
pretty certain to win both the 4x400 and 4x800 relays. MIT and Williams
entered every runner that had qualified for the event, even those who had
already run the 5K at the beginning of the meet. Williams took the pace out
well at 80 seconds for the first 400, but then slowed to 85's for two
quarters. Manion started to push the pace at that point and came through the
1600 in 5:32. The field was still very bunched due to the slow early pace.
Manion continued to try to push the pace, but could not break the field.
Morimoto and McVay stayed with Manion through 2400 meters. Williams Chiara Del
Piccolo '13 pulled away just as she did in the 5K, but Manion went with her
through 2700 meters, but then faded. A second Williams runner caught and
passed Manion in the final 100 to give the Ephs 18 big points. Manion placed
third in 10:17.26 after falling in the final straight. Morimoto placed sixth
with an excellent personal best of 10:20.50. McVay finished in seventh in
10:20.57 and Martina de Geus '14 finished in eighth in 10:22.74. MIT earned 12
points, but were now 12 back with two events to go.

In the 4x400, MIT led off with Simmons who threw down a casual 58.9. Bairey,
lost the lead with a poor 61.3 leg and Gross kept Tech close with an average
60.4 leg. Jones looked the best she had all day with a well run 57.4 to easily
take the lead and give MIT another relay victory in 3:58.08. Williams placed
third to earn six points and make the lead eight points. MIT not only would
have to win the final event, but Williams would have to finish in seventh for
a tie and eighth or worse for an MIT victory.

Williams ran in the slower section and won that section, although there was
quite a bit of controversy. The officials had the third leg of the first three
teams handoff after three laps and then had those same three team's anchor
legs run an extra lap to give them a full 3200 meters. This was immediately
protested by one of the coaches as by rule the handoff did not take place in
the zone since it was a lap early. While this was going on MIT was busy
winning the final section. Huang led off with a 2:18.5 and put MIT in the lead
for good. Taylor ran tight but still managed a 2:23.3. Coad added an excellent
2:21.4. van den Heuvel ran 2:21.4 to seal the victory in a facility and new
MIT record of 9:24.87. Everyone watched the clock to see how many teams from
the fast section would beat Williams time of 9:46.65. Five teams managed to
beat that time, and the protest was denied, giving the Ephs the one point
victory.

It was a very disappointing loss, but certainly a lesson to the MIT
competitors that every point really does count. Next week, MIT will rest for
the most part, focusing on just a few events in preparation for the NCAA
Championships in three weeks.

RETURN TO INDOOR  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

VARSITY AND FRESHMEN RECORDS FALL AS MIT HAS PHENOMENAL MEET AT ALL NEW
ENGLANDS

February 24-25, 2012

MIT traveled across the river to Boston University for the New England
Intercollegiate Amateur Athletic Association Championship (NEICAAA), the All
Division New England Championship. MIT only goes for team points in the New
England Division III Championship, which occurred last weekend and the NCAA
Division III Championship. This meet, and next weekends double meet; the IC4A
Championship and the ECAC Division III Championship are used solely for
qualifying purposes for Nationals. With that declaration, and with resting
some key middle-distance performers and all distance runners, the Engineers
were still the top scoring Division III team in both the men's and women's
meet. The women finished 11th of 35 scoring teams with 29 points while the men
were 13th out of 34 scoring teams with 22 points.

Overall, this was certainly the best meet of the year for MIT, and quite
possibly the best single meet in MIT history. All in all, four varsity records
fell, with another legendary record being missed by .14 seconds, one freshman
record and two more with marginal misses, two victories and eight strong NCAA
qualifying performances were the highlights for this championship.

The men started things off for MIT on day one with Nathan Peterson '12 in the
Pole Vault. Peterson made his first attempt at 15-0, and 15-6 and a season
best 16-0 3/4. With three vaulters remaining, Peterson had three solid
attempts at 16-7, but it was not quite there today. He ended up with a second
place tie, scoring seven points for MIT and moved up to number nine on the
NCAA list.

In the Weight Throw, CK Umachi '12, currently number four on the NCAA list,
needed his last throw in the trials to move into the finals. In his warmups
prior to finals he started putting things together. On his first throw in the
finals, Umachi threw 62-5 3/4 to take the lead. Even though he was not
stepping in aggressively Umachi won the event by one centimeter, giving Tech
10 more points.

In the 400, Tyler Singer-Clark '14, despite getting boxed in on the second
lap, was able to run a very competitive 49.74, a personal best, but did not
make the finals.

Sam Parker '15, missed the 800 freshman record, held by Paul Neves '83 by .04
seconds with his 1:52.98. Caught up in a very fast heat, Parker was hanging on
for dear life in the back of the pack with splits of 26.8, 53.8 and 1:23.0.
Parker's time moved him to number 11 on the NCAA list. Also in the 800 was Pat
Marx '13. Marx was hoping to improve on his best time, but despite a nice
start, he allowed the outside alley to break in front of him and then the
others passed him, putting him in last. He made a good move to get into fifth,
but then backed off a strong move entering the turn two different times. He
finished strong, but only ran 1:53.35. Marx is currently number 10 on the NCAA
list based on a time from two weeks ago.

The women also began the meet with the Pole Vault. Lauren Kuntz '13, still
unable to find the form that put her over 12' in 2011, was clean through 11-6
1/2 to earn seventh place, but did not have a good attempt at 12-0 1/2. Joanna
Chen '15 set a personal best of 11-0 3/4, missing the freshman record by 1/4".
Marissa Engle '15 cleared 10-6 3/4 while Kate Wymbs '14 successfully made 10-0
3/4. Kuntz is number 11 on the NCAA list.

In the 400, Jamie Simmons '12 and Maddie Bairey '15 were in the first heat.
Simmons did not get the break, but was second in 27.5. Not slowing down,
Simmons took the lead going down the backstretch and sped home in a personal
best 56.68. Bairey, her first time in a 400 heat, was taken aback at how far
back she was at the 200 mark. Her split was fine in 28.5, but the distance
behind shook her confidence, causing her to mentally fall out of the race and
finish in 62.12. Martha Gross '12 was up next and she delivered a season best
59.33. Finally, Portia Jones '12 got in the blocks. Running a very controlled
first 200, Jones passed the leader entering the third turn and never was
challenged as she cruised to a 56.38 finish.

Cindy Huang '15, blew away her own freshman record in the 800, running
2:15.96. Her first 400 was 68.2, so she took the lead and pushed the pace to
1:41.5. In the final 200 she was passed on the backstretch and then lost her
technique a bit as she struggled to respond. She maintained her speed to set
the new record. Huang is now number 24 on the NCAA list and will need to
improve about another 1.5 seconds to get into the required top 15 that are
selected for the National Championship. Alexandra Taylor '14 and Margaret Coad
were in the next heat. Taylor worked her way to the top third of the pack with
Coad two to three places behind. Both came through the 400 in 69 seconds and
in pretty good position. Taylor was able to respond well, finishing in a
personal best of 2:18.10. Coad set a personal best herself in 2:20.00.

Jones returned to the track in the 200, easily winning her heat in 24.89 to
advance to the finals. Jackie Brew '14, who earlier competed in the Long Jump
with a 16-10 performance, added a personal best 25.44 in the 200, narrowly
missing the finals.

On day two, the women's High Jump was the first event for MIT. Both Kristine
Bunker '14 and Preethi Vaidyanathan '15 missed clearing the opening height of
5' 3", although Bunker had one good attempt, but knocked it off with her calf.
Both MIT jumpers are tied for number 35 on the NCAA list and will need to
improve two more inches to 5-5 3/4 to make it to the NCAA Championship.

First up on the track was Kyle Hannon '13 in the men's seeded Mile Run. With a
sub 4:00 miler in the group it was expected the pace would be fast, and it
was. Hannon was in the back with splits of 60.1 and 2:01.5. There was a break
in the middle of the pack and Hannon took a little too long to respond. His
pace slowed to 3:04.0, but he began to move again in the final 400, closing
nicely to place seventh in an MIT record 4:06.42. This marvelous performance
moved Hannon to number four on the NCAA list.

Right after Hannon showed his ability, Louise van den Heuvel '14 toed the line
in the women's seeded Mile. The pace was unusually slow, which worked very
well for van den Heuvel. Her first 400 was 74.0 and she was towards the front
of the pack. She ran a very smart race, covering her outside and moving when
necessary to avoid getting passed or boxed in. The half mile mark was 2:27.5
thanks to van den Heuvel taking the lead briefly to keep the pace honest. The
third quarter saw a break in the field, but van den Heuvel ran another 74 to
come through in 3:41.6. Making her one error she settled for about 200 meters
when she should have trusted her legs, van den Heuvel slowed behind a UConn
runner until the final 100 when she moved but was partially boxed in at that
point. Nevertheless, she was able to close well, finishing in a new MIT record
of 4:55.56 to place sixth overall. van den Heuvel is now fifth on the National
list.

In the 400, Simmons and Jones were in the two section final. Simmons was in
the first section and she took advantage of the opportunity. Running another
very well paced race, Simmons hit the 200 mark in 27.2. She continued to push
and passed the leaders as she came up on them, straight or curve did not
matter. Flying straight through the finish with the section victory, Simmons
finished with a new personal best of 56.38, good for fifth overall and seventh
on the NCAA list. Jones was in the fast section of the five fastest runners
from the trials on Friday. Running a much better paced race than earlier in
her career, Jones was in fourth coming into the 200 mark at 26.4. She moved
into second right away and kept closing the gap on the leader, passing for the
victory right before the finish. Jones new MIT and personal record now stands
at 55.18. This ranks Jones as the top performer in the country for Division
III. Jones is also ranked third in the 60HH, which she will compete in next
week at the ECAC Division III Championship at the NY Armory.

An hour later, Jones was back on the track for the finals of the 200.
Unfortunately, she drew lane 3 in the four runner fast section, putting her at
a severe disadvantage. Jones was very motivated and still finished second in
her section, and third overall in a season best 24.71.

The final women's event for MIT was the 4x800 Relay. The quartet of Huang,
Taylor, Coad and van den Heuvel had broken the MIT record the week before in
the New England Division III Championship, running 9:24.87 in an uncontested
victory. This time, they were relatively fresh and against the best
competition in New England, including the best Division I had to offer. Huang
started off in the crowded field. She settled too far back where the pace was
not very fast, hitting a relatively slow 400 in 69.2. Huang picked it up a bit
in the final 100 to split 2:18.0. Taylor took over the baton duties, making a
strong move early, possibly too strong as she hit splits of 31.6 and 65.3.
Although she slowed, it was not by much as she ran her fastest 800 ever, a
2:16.1. Coad took the baton, and although she was aggressive the other legs
she was competing against were very fast. She split 67.0 and lost about 20
meters on the field. However she only lost one position overall and split an
excellent 2:19.2. van den Heuvel got things moving with a 66.4 first quarter
and made up some ground. She moved into fifth place in the final quarter and
never gave it up, ending with a 2:16.8, fifth place and a new MIT record of
9:10.19. Unfortunately this event is not an NCAA Championship event. However,
the DMR is and Tech is ranked fourth in the country in that event, while the
men are ranked seventh.

The men finished the meet off with the 4x400 Relay. Entering the meet with a
time of 3:18.75, a time that would not get them to the NCAA Division III
Championship, the foursome of Singer-Clark, Mac Gager '14, Parker and Marx
knew they would have to run sub 3:17 to have a chance at making the
championship in two weeks. Starting in the next to fastest section, Singer-
Clark led off. He made a great move on the homestretch to take the lead at the
200 mark, splitting 22.6. He held the lead as he handed off to Gager in 48.5.
Gager maintained the lead until the final stretch where he fell just behind,
splitting 49.6. Parker made his collegiate debut in the 4x400 and held his
own. The handoff was a little slow, but his 800 strength prevailed as he ran
50.1 to hand off to Marx in second place. Marx was in arrears to Williams by
15 meters at the handoff. Marx came through the 200 in 22.2 to make up half
the distance and kept pushing, closing the gap to within a couple of feet as
he finished in 47.5 to give MIT an overall time of 3:15.88 and sixth place in
the entire field. This missed the MIT record by .14 seconds held by the
legendary quartet of Ayisi Makatiani '90, Mark Dunzo '91, Bill Singhose '90
and Kevin Scannell '91. MIT is ranked third on the NCAA list for both the men
and women in the 4x400 relay.

Next week, most of the men will again compete at Boston University in the IC4A
Championship, a conference made up of some the the most prestigious Division I
schools in the East, while the women will travel to the NY Armory to compete
in the ECAC Division III Championship. Next Saturday will be the final day to
qualify for the NCAA Division III Championship.

RETURN TO INDOOR  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**MIT CLAIMS VICTORIES AT SPRINGFIELD INVITATIONAL**

January 21, 2012

The men and women from MIT dominated the competition at the Springfield
Invitational. The men claimed eight of 12 running events to easily outscore
the other eight teams, scoring 176 to second place Springfield's 100. UMass
Dartmouth was third with 93 points, followed by 67 for Tufts, 42 for Ramapo,
30 for Westfield State, 18 for Wheaton, 16 for Coast Guard and 13 for Keene
State.

The women took first place honors in seven of the running events to score 163
points to 89 for Tufts, 75 for Wheaton, 68 for Springfield, 47 for Keene
State, 45 for Ramapo, 41 for UMass Dartmouth, 17 for Westfield State, 6 for
Coast Guard and 4 for Mt. Holyoke.

Josh Duncavage '13 was the dominant scorer for MIT, taking the 60 meter
hurdles in an ugly 8.74, tying for the victory in the 60 meter dash in 7.08
and earned third in the 200 even though he won the final section in 23.07.

Other victories for the men were claimed by Tyler Singer-Clark '14 in the 200
in 23.05, Pat Marx '13 in the 600 in 1:22.98, Gil O'Neil in the 800 in
2:00.05, Justin Bullock '14 in the 1000 in 2:36.57, the quartet of Mac Gager
'13, Nick Diamantoni '15, Jacob Jurewicz '14, and Marx winning the 4x400 in
3:28.35, and O'Neil, David Way '13, Jared Forman '13, and Stephen Serene '12
taking the 4x800 honors in 8:16.67. In the field events, CK Umachi '12 claimed
the sole MIT victory, taking the Weight Throw with a mark of 60-2 1/2.

The men's meet was close, with MIT up by two over UMass Dartmouth, when Marx
led a 1-2-3-4 sweep in the 500 for 28 points in the 10-8-6-4-2-1 scoring
format. In the next three events, Tech took 1-2 in the 800, 1-4-6 in the 1000
and 1-3-4 in the 200 to put the meet away.

The women were led by Portia Jones '12 with her victories in the 60HH and the
200 as well as her second place in the 400. In the hurdles, Jones went up
against national rival, Didi Jusme '12 of Wheaton College. At last year's NCAA
Division III Indoor Track & Field Championship, Jones had the second fastest
time in the trials of the hurdles, earning a seed in the fast section of the
two section final. Due to the host track only having six sprint lanes
(something that should never happen in a national championship), both the 55HH
and 55 Dash were run as two section finals. Jones won the fast section,
running 8.11, the fastest time in the country for Division III that year. In
the second, and supposedly, slower section, the eventual winner ran 8.10 and
Jusme ran 8.11, getting the nod for second place over Jones when the two photo
finishes were taken to the 1000th of a second. In the outdoor NCAA Division
III Championship, Jones finished second while Jusme did not qualify for the
finals. Nevertheless, the rivalry was alive and well. In the trials, Jusme ran
the fastest time in the country thus far this year, an 8.86. In the finals,
Jones sensed Jusme next to her going into the second hurdle and exploded
forward, pulling away to win in 8.82 to 8.93 for Jusme.

MIT had two varsity records in the meet, Jackie Brew '14 reset her own varsity
record in the Long Jump when she won with a mark of 17-7. In the 600, Jamie
Simmons '12, was determined to get the varsity record, and she did, despite
going out in 30.4 for the first 200. Simmons clocked 1:36.57 for the victory.
Other victories were earned by; Cindy Huang '15 in the 800, running 2:24.36,
Tania Morimoto '12 in the 5,000, running 18:22.96, the foursome of Jones,
Brew, Simmons and Maddie Bairey '15 ran 1:47.13 in the 4x200 for a solid
victory and the quartet of Alexandra Taylor '14, Margaret Coad '15, Stephanie
Marzen '15 and Huang won the 4x800 in 9:47.21.

The women's meet was never in doubt as the Engineers put points up on the
board in every event with the exception of the Shot Put and the 4x400, which
they did not enter.

Next week, MIT will split up their team between two non-scoring meets. The
runners will travel across the river on Friday for the women and Saturday to
Boston University to run on one of the fastest banked tracks in the country,
while the field event performers and all pure hurdlers and short sprinters
will be at the MIT Invitational on Saturday.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

NATIONAL PERFORMANCES AND PERSONAL BESTS LEAD WAY IN TERRIER CLASSIC

January 28, 2012

The two day Terrier Classic Indoor Track and Field Meet at Boston University's
banked track was highlighted by NCAA marks and personal bests by both women
and men. The women competed on day 1 while the men were slotted to day 2 as
just a few of the 2800 plus entries.

Portia Jones '12 and her teammates started things off on a very positive note
with some incredible times in the 400 Meter race. Jones split 26.0 to finish
in 56.10, the fastest time in the country for Division III so far in 2012.
Jamie Simmons '12 ran 57.01, a time that is likely to get her into Nationals.
Jackie Brew '14 ran her first indoor 400 ever and did an excellent job,
running 58.91. Maddie Bairey '15 improved by over three seconds from her
previous indoor best, clocking 59.77.

The same quartet returned in the 200 and lit up the track again. Jones again
led the way with a 24.95. Brew bested Simmons this time, running 25.89.
Simmons toured the track in 26.36 while Bairey clocked a PR of 26.48.

Cindy Huang '15, running the 800, was a little enthusiastic, taking the lead
with a 31 second first 200. Stephanie Marzen '15 was in the same section and
came through in 32 even though she was in last place. Both paid for the quick
early pace, slowing to 2:21.39 and 2:21.86 respectively, although both were
season and indoor bests.

Louise van den Heuvel '14 ran a superb double. First she tackled the Mile Run,
setting a seven second PR by running an even split 5:00.42. She came back in
the 1000, and even though she really never got into the race, she still ran a
PR of 3:01.34. Teammates Alexandra Taylor '14 and Margaret Coad '15 ran
3:03.02 and 3:03.71 respectively to both set PRs and move into MIT's top ten
list.

In the Pole Vault, Lauren Kuntz '13 vaulted a season best 11-09 3/4 to remain
in sixth on the NCAA list. Joanna Chen '15 and Marissa Stephens '15 both
cleared 10-6, which was a season best for Stephens.

The 4x400 had high hopes after such spectacular open 400's, but Bairey had to
pull out due to a hip flexor soreness. Huang was able to substitute, so the
team went for it. Simmons led off with a solid 57.9 after going out terribly
slow for the opening 200 in 28.6. Brew took the lead at the break and went out
in 26.8 to continue in the lead. However in the second lap she slowed
dramatically, splitting 60.7. Huang opened with a 29.1, but could not close,
finishing in 63.1. Jones also started off quickly, running the first 200 in
25.9 as she moved MIT back into fourth place, which she held but dropped
velocity to finish in 58.0. The team ran 3:59.74, a season best, but far from
what they are capable of.

In the distance events, Martina de Geus '14, opened things up with a 3K. Her
first 1600 was an outstanding 5:26, but the first three quarters of 80 seconds
each took a toll. Her pace slowed to a dismal 10:32.83 final time. In the 5K,
Elaine McVay '15 was in the second section. Even though she was the last seed
in that section, she was undeterred. For the first mile McVay clicked off 82
second 400's although she threw in one 80 but ran very nervously, accelerating
anytime there was the smallest opening. After the 5:26 first mile, she slowed
a bit from wasting all the energy in the first mile, but still clocked a 5:36.
Staying competitive, McVay ran 5:39 for the third mile and finished with a 40
final 200 to set a new freshman record for MIT in 17:21.42. Dacie Manion '15,
Tania Morimoto '12 and Claire O'Connell '14 were all in the third section of
the 5K. Manion managed to get up front with the leaders and stuck with them
through a relatively quick 5:37 first mile. O'Connell was running in bursts,
panicking because she likes to be up front and with the fact that her shoe was
loose. She would split 5:41 and 5:53 for the first two miles. Morimoto was in
a groove, splitting 5:43 and 5:40 for the first two miles. In the final mile,
Manion stayed tough with a 5:59 and a 40 second final 200 to run 18:02.98.
Morimoto fell back a little in the final half mile, clocking 18:12.77.
O'Connell, despite wasting so much energy in the first mile, still raced to a
18:19.65.

Day two was the men's day. Allen Leung '15 started things off in the 5K,
running in the top unseeded section. The pace was quick, but Leung was up to
the task as they came through the first mile in 4:47 and the second mile in
4:51. The pace picked up and Leung still was hanging tough. Having a little
too much left after hitting the three mile mark in 14:26 for a 4:48 mile, he
kicked in a 32 second final 200 for a 14:58.00 personal best. In the final
event of the day, the seeded 5000, Dan Harper '12 took to the track hoping to
race well and perhaps run outside of his comfort zone. He may not have totally
succeeded, but he made large strides towards achieving that goal. Coming
through the first two miles in splits of 4:45 and 4:47, Harper was relaxed and
making the right moves to slide up in the pack. However, in the final mile,
his determination seemed to falter a bit. He pretty much maintained his pace,
running a 4:45 third mile, but he did not react well to surges by the leaders.
His final 33 second 200 brought him a personal best of 14:50.81.

In the 3K, Benjie Xie '15 was going for the freshman record, and was on pace
with 800 to go, but faded to 70 second pace, finishing out of gas, but still
running a very respectable 8:42.03. Stephen Serene '12, was out of the race
until the final 200, but closed with a 31 final 200 to run 8:40.02. Ben
Mattocks '12, in a different section, was following along well, but not really
racing or responding to moves. He nevertheless finished strong to run 8:48.05.

In the dash and hurdle trials, neither Josh Duncavage '13 nor Michael
DuPlessis '14 started well and both struggled to catch up. Duncavage ran 8.93
for the 60HH and DuPlessis ran 7.16 in the 60 Meter Dash.

Nathan Peterson '12 cleared 15-5 in the Pole Vault and was over 16' all three
times, hitting the bar on the way down. The only other field event performer
for MIT was CK Umachi '12. Umachi did not perform his best, throwing 60-4 in
the Weight Throw and a dismal 36-6 1/4 in the Shot Put.

The 400 delivered three season bests for MIT. Tyler Singer-Clark '14 started
things off with a well run victory in his section, clocking 50.27. Nick
Diamantoni '15 ran to victory in his section with a 50.56. Jake Jurewicz did
not race so well but still ran relatively fast in 51.66.

Mac Gager '14 and David Way '13 raced the 500, delivering very strong
performance. Both split in the 51's coming through the 400. Gager ran a
personal best of 1:06.19 and Way also attained a PR in 1:06.88.

MIT ran seven milers in the Mile Run hoping to find some answers to the
Distance Medley Relay in two weeks. While the times were respectable, there
was nothing at the sub 4:10 level that is necessary to be a national contender
in the DMR. Justin Bullock '14 led the way with a new PR of 4:16.84. Freshman
Karl Baranov ran 4:16.94 after two weeks of training, showing a lot of
potential. Logan Trimble '13 is starting to find his way back from illness as
he finished in 4:22.98. Rick Paez, another freshman, ran 4:24.72. Kyle Hannon
'13 continued to have competitive issues as he slowed after the 600 mark and
finished with a 4:24.79. Jay McKenna '13 ran a season best of 4:27.56. Eric
Safai '14 stopped competing early in the race, finishing at 4:28.45.

Next on the track was the 200. MIT's sprinters did not disappoint as all three
set personal indoor bests. Duncavage blasted out of the blocks, kept the
pressure on, and won his section in 22.44. Singer-Clark returned from the 400
and showed his ability to come back and run a second event as he ran 22.56.
DuPlessis is beginning to round into shape after battling a hip flexor injury.
He showed his ability to go up an event, sprinting to a 22.75 PR. Diamantoni
showed he can come down an event, although he had an inside lane, which
hindered him a little. Still, he ran 23.06, showing he can do better in the
400 as well.

In the 800, there was the much anticipated showdown between veteran 800
runner, Pat Marx '13, and the pair of rookies; Chadd Kiggins '15 and Sam
Parker '15. Marx, entered with a faster time was in an earlier section. He got
out well in 26.6, but did not stay towards the front and engage the leaders of
the race. Instead, he tucked in behind, on the rail, so nearly the entire
field passed him over the next two laps. In the final lap, Marx made a move,
but his 29 final 200 was only good enough for a 1:55.14. Kiggins and Parker
were in the same section. Surprisingly, both went out towards the rear of the
pack, although it was a quick pace as both came through in low 27. Kiggins
pulled a bit in front of Parker in the final lap and managed to hold on,
running 1:54.79 to Parker's 1:54.96. Also running well for MIT were Gil O'Neil
'13, who clocked a 1:56.61 and Jared Forman '13 running 1:57.61.

Next up was the 1000 Meter race. All MIT runners were doubling back from the
Mile and it showed. Hannon ran a respectable 2:31.09 and Bullock was close
behind in 2:31.17. Trimble improved to 2:34.51. Much more is needed from MIT
in this event as Tech is accustomed to having more than a few sub 2:30
runners.

In the 4x400, MIT entered two teams, the 400 runners vs. the 800 runners.
While the match-up was intriguing, the primary purpose was to stimulate
competition to find out who would be on the single most effective 4x400 come
championship time. Even though they were entered with the same time, as luck
would have it, they ended up in different sections. The 800 runners were
first. Gager led off with an excellent 50.7. Parker, only having done four
track workouts since last spring, and obviously lacking some speed at this
point in the season, still managed a 51.8. Kiggins showed his versatility by
running a 51.2. Marx, determined to make up ground on the leaders, did so, but
his 23.4 first 200 limited his overall time to a 49.7. The cumulative time of
3:23.59 was a season best for MIT, but would it be enough to beat out the 400
runners?

Singer-Clark showed that tripling does not bother him as he raced to a near
perfect 49.9 leadoff. Diamantoni split 50.5 and Jurewicz ran a very
competitive 51.0 to put the 400 runners quite a bit up on the 800 team.
Duncavage, running his first 400 of the year, and not normally one who prefers
the longer sprints, competed very well. Despite locking up in the final 60 or
so meters, he still ran 50.1 to give the 400 runners bragging rights for the
day in 3:21.69.

Back home, MIT was hosting their own Invitational. Primarily field event
athletes as well as hurdlers were at MIT due to the superior field event
facilities. Kristine Bunker '14 led the way, tying the varsity record in the
High Jump at 5-3 3/4, as she and teammate Preethi Vaidyanathan '15 go back and
forth with the record, now standing tied.

Both Bunker and Jackie Konopka '14 qualified for the pentathlon by doing all
five events in the meet, both scoring over 3000 points.

The Pole Vaulters had a fine day. Kate Wymbs '14 returned from an injured
hamstring to vault 10-0. Leslie Meyer '13 set a personal best of 9-6 1/4 and
Abigail Klein '14 vaulted a best of 8-6 1/4.

Other excellent performances were provided by Victoria Szklarzewski '15 and
Kali Benavides '15. Szklarzewski ran a nice PR of 7.60 in the 55 Dash and
Benavides raced for the first time since a mid-season injury in Cross Country
to win the 3K in 11:11.60.

For the men the highlight was a 6-3 1/4 height by John Thomas '15 in the High
Jump. Sheldon Trotman '15 showed his jumping ability by hitting 45-0 1/4 in
the Triple Jump. Matt Jordan '15 returned to racing, running a very
competitive 5K in 16:05.84.

Next Friday, MIT travels up river to compete in the Beantown Classic against
Boston University, host Harvard and Northeastern University, all Division I
teams.

RETURN TO INDOOR





  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**TECH OPENS INTERCOLLEGIATE SEASON WITH DOMINANT VICTORY**

January 14, 2012

Both the Men's and Women's teams representing MIT dominated their opponents
from Bates and Colby Colleges in the first intercollegiate meet of the 2012
indoor season for the Engineers. The men won five of six field events and 11
of 18 events overall to score 199 points to 116 for Bates and 64 for Colby.
The women also won five of six field events and 11 of 18 events overall to
earn the victory with 210 points to 88 for Bates and 80 for Colby.

MIT opened the meet with a dominant victory in the women's Mile Run. Louise
van den Heuvel '14 took control of the race in the second half and blasted the
last 400 in 76 seconds to win in 5:12.44. Marie Burkland '13 claimed second in
5:15.17, Elaine McVay '15 took third in 5:15.81 and Stephanie Marzen '15
placed fourth in 5:20.35. Claiming the first four of the six scoring places
gave MIT a quick 19 points to two for Colby and one for Bates in the
7-5-4-3-2-1 scoring format.

Things did not get easier on the track for the visitors as Portia Jones '12
claimed the 55HH in a fine early season time of 8.40. She was supported by
Jackie Brew '14 in third at 8.59 and Jackie Konopka '14 in fifth at 9.07.

A brief reprieve occurred in the 400, when due to the absence of Martha Gross
'12 due to a minor knee irritation, Madeleine Bairey '15 was the lone
representative for the Engineers. Bairey ran well, placing second in 63.92,
but MIT only took five of the 22 available points.

MIT turned the heat back on in the 600 as Jamie Simmons '12 led start to
finish, clocking a great early season time of 1:38.07. Freshman Cindy Huang
ran a very respectable 1:42.74 for second place and Alexandra Taylor '14
returned to competition after a lower back injury, taking third place in
1:44.22.

Tech did not win the next event, the 55 Meter Dash, but they did take 2-3-4 by
Jones, Brew and Veronica Szklarzewski '15, clocking 7.51, 7.52 and 7.75
respectively.

In the field, despite a core of experienced throwers, the Engineers still
claimed the Shot Put victory as Kristine Bunker '14 exercised her pentathlon
skills to throw a PR of 33-2. Fellow multi-eventer, Konopka took third in 30-9
and Ashley Wheeler '15 earned sixth with a put of 29-2 1/2.

MIT took another 1-2-3-4 sweep, when Preethi Vaidyanathan claimed both the
freshman and varsity high jump records with a fine leap of 5-3 3/4. Earning
second, and losing her varsity record of 5-3 1/4, which she held for one week,
Bunker cleared 5-1 3/4. Szklarzewski took third at 4-11 3/4 and Konopka
claimed fourth at 4-9 3/4.

In the Long Jump, Brew jumped 17-0 3/4 for first place and Konopka took second
at 16-1 1/2. Michelle Johnson '15 added a fourth place at 15-10 1/2 and
Stephanie Birkhimer '14 contributed with a sixth place at 14-9 1/4. Johnson
returned in the Triple Jump to lead the Engineers to perhaps their best event
of the day. Johnson jumped a personal best of 35-1 and Szklarzewski added a PR
of her own for second place at 34-11 1/4. Brew was just behind in third at
34-11 and Birkhimer contributed with a fifth place 33-3 3/4.

MIT's signature event, the Pole Vault, was once again strong with Lauren Kuntz
'13, leading the way. Kuntz claimed first place at 11-5 3/4 and was supported
by Joanna Chen '15 at 10-6 for third, Marissa Engle '15 at 10-0 for fourth and
Becca Greene '14 at 10-0 for fifth.

In the one field event the Engineers lost, the Weight Throw, Freshmen Ashley
Wheeler and Ellen Liverpool, threw personal bests of 37-1 and 34-4
respectively for fourth and fifth place.

Back on the track, the domination continued. Margaret Coad '15 earned second
place in the 800 with a 2:24.49 and Marzen returned from the Mile to take
third in 2:29.88. In the 1000, van den Heuvel took second in 3:05.09.
Teammates, Burkland and Milly Helmick supported with fourth and fifth place
finishes in 3:07.90 and 3:12.55.

In the next to last individual event, the 200, Jones and Simmons returned to
the track to claim first and third in 26.39 and 27.21 respectively.

The 3000 saw a very impressive performance from freshman Dacie Manion as she
never looked tired, dropping a 37 second final 200 to win in 10:19.89. McVay,
coming back after the Mile, finished in third at 10:24.95 after leading for
the majority of the race. Martina de Geus '14, lent a fourth place 10:33.06 to
the scoring.

The men had an equally dominant team performance, but it did not start out
that way. In the Mile Run, MIT's considerable talent did not translate into
good performances, nor significant points. Justin Bullock '14, performed well,
taking charge of the race early and taking the victory in 4:21.01. Rick Paez
'15, also ran a strong race, never letting up, and taking third in 4:27.61.
Pat Marx '13, making his debut in the Mile, did not engage in the race until
it was too late. He did manage to move up to fourth in 4:27.90. Jay McKenna
'14, added a sixth in 4:32.11.

Missing Josh Duncavage '13, due to too many absences to illness, took away
significant talent and depth from the sprint and hurdle groups, but Tech
managed to step up regardless. In the hurdles, Brian Djaja '13 slowed in the
middle of the race, but regrouped to finish second in 8.20. John Thomas '15
ran a personal best of 7.61 to claim fourth. Jordan Mizerak '14 sharpened his
Heptathlon skills with a fifth place. In the sprints, the 55 and 200 Meter
Dashes, even Duncavage could not have taken down Colby sprinter, Dominique
Kone, who won with excellent times of 6.41 and 22.46 respectively.
Nevertheless, MIT held their own. Michael DuPlessis '14 had a great day by
claiming second in the 55 with a personal best of 6.58 and then took third in
the 200 in 23.51. Tyler Singer-Clark, complimented DuPlessis by taking fourth
in the 55 in 6.78 and second in the 200 in 23.13.

In the oval events, Tech dominated by outscoring their opponents with 88
points plus winning both relays while Bates and Colby together earned 66
points. Mac Gager '14 took the 400 title with a 52.38 time on the tight turn
track. Nick Diamantoni '15 provided a second place in 53.03 and Jake Jurewicz
'14 added a third in 53.06 out of the slow section.

Chadd Kiggins '15 demonstrated what gave him a 1:53 800 last year in high
school, as he took the 600 in an excellently paced race in 1:23.86. David Way
'13 was close behind in third at 1:24.79. Dominique Hoskin '15 added a sixth
in 1:30.07.

Bullock returned to the track in the 800, but was never really competitive
despite his third place finish in 1:59.54. Jared Forman '13 gave his all, but
could not hold onto the leaders, dropping off to fourth in 2:01.35. Paez, also
doubling back from the mile, earned fifth in 2:01.68.

The 1000 results gave MIT 13 points, but not the victory. Bates, James LePage
ran an outstanding 2:31.24 to run away from everyone. However, Gil O'Neil ran
a solid early season time of 2:36.00 to take second place. Logan Trimble '13
made the effort to go with LePage, but paid dearly as he finished fourth after
running a 69 final 400. Kyle Hannon '13, who continued his challenges with
competitive situations, did pull out a fourth in 2:41.01 and McKenna returned
from the Mile to add a sixth in 2:42.54.

Allen Leung '15 established an early pace in the 3000 of 71 second 400's
through 1200 meters when the pace should have been 69's. When he slowed, the
trio of Dan Harper '12, Roy Wedge '14 and Benji Xie '15 stayed behind, instead
of moving up to continue or speed up the race. This casual pace set the
quartet up for a vicious kick from Noah Graboys of Bates as he stole the race
in the final 400. Harper earned second in 8:50.95, Xie third in 8:52.29, Leung
fourth in 8:52.50 and Wedge was fifth in 8:52.86.

In the 5K, Stephen Serene '12 led wire to wire to win in 15:37.05. His goal
was to run sub 15:30 and was well on his way with a first mile in 4:53, but
then added miles of 5:02 and 5:08 to fall too far behind pace to hit the New
England Division III qualifying time. Kris Frey '15 supported Serene's victory
with a fourth place 16:12.21 and Matt Weaver '12 returned to competition after
dealing with an IT band injury, to take sixth in 16:44.32.

In the field events, the Weight Throw was probably the top event from a
performance perspective. CK Umachi '12 took the victory with a fine toss of
60-8 3/4. Jeremy Sharpe '13 added a personal best of 49-7 1/4, good for third
place. Freshman Cameron Wagar threw 41-7 to add a point for sixth place.

Sheldon Trotman '15 put together two victories, taking first place honors in
both the Long Jump and the Triple Jump with marks of 20-4 1/2 and 41-7 1/4 as
he learns to correct his approach. In both events Mizerak added points,
earning fifth in the Triple Jump with a 39-6 and a sixth in the Long Jump.

In the vertical jumps, MIT took both events. Matt Falk '12 claimed first in
the High Jump at 6-4. Trotman and Thomas tied for third at 6-0. Nathan
Peterson '12 won the Pole Vault in 14-5 1/4 while Ben Schreck '15 took second
at 13-11 1/4. Colin Hong '15 and Cory Monroe '13 tied for fourth in 12-5 1/2.

The Shot Put, the only field event the Engineers did not win, was still a
solid effort for Tech. Umachi threw a personal best of 46-0 3/4 to take third
and Sharpe threw 42-7 1/2, good for fifth place.

Next week, MIT will need an even better team performance when they visit
Springfield College. There will be outstanding competition from Coast Guard,
Keene State, Mount Holyoke, Ramapo, Smith, Tufts, UMass/Dartmouth, Westfield
and Wheaton Colleges.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**RELAYS RULE AS MIT QUALIFIES TEAMS FOR NCAA'S**

February 11, 2012

MIT visited Boston University's banked track on Friday and Saturday for the
Valentine's Invitational, hoping for improved performances to get better
qualifying marks for the upcoming championships. Headlining the way for MIT
were the Distance Medley Relay (DMR) and 4x400 teams, with all four getting
season PR's and solid NCAA Division III qualifying times.

The women started off the meet on Friday with the open 400. Portia Jones '12,
running out of the next to fastest section, sprinted her way to a 56.53. Even
though she got well, running the first 200 in 25.6, she did not finish as well
as she is capable. Maddie Bairey '15 ran another personal best, closing well
to run 58.69. Martha Gross '12 continued her come back from injury, running a
season best of 59.63.

In the 800, Louise van den Heuvel '14, dropping down in distance, showed she
is more than capable of having success at the shorter distances. Running a
well paced race, van den Heuvel clocked 2:17.06 to move to number three on the
MIT all time list. Cindy Huang '15 went out a little slow, but still closed
well to run an indoor PR of 2:17.43.

MIT had two entries in the 1000, but Margaret Coad '15, was disqualified for
cutting in too soon. She ran a great race and would have been given a time of
2:58 had she not been DQ'd. Alexandra Taylor '14 continued to improve weekly,
splitting 71 and 2:23 en route to finishing in a huge PR of 2:59.14.

In the Mile Run, Maggie Lloyd '12 continued her epiphany of fast running, this
time running a near 20 second PR as she won her section in 5:10.17. Stephanie
Marzen '15 improved her PR, running 5:07.96 in a fairly even split race.
Brooke Johnson '13 knocked 10 seconds off her debut mile last week, but still
has a lot of room for improvement as she learns to race the mile again.

The women's 4x400 was next. MIT has had an All America 4x400 team for the past
two indoor and outdoor seasons, and planned on qualifying for the NCAA
Division III Championship in this race. Knowing that only the top 10 times in
the country advance to Nationals, MIT was looking for a sub 3:52 performance.
Jamie Simmons '12 led off and ran a great leg, splitting 57.0. Jackie Brew '14
finished her leg better than she has been doing, handing off in 58.6. Bairey
had a horrible handoff but ran a strong leg anyway. Despite a fairly quick
27.1 first 200 she finished in 58.7. Jones anchored in a very strong 56.6 to
bring the team in third overall and a new MIT record of 3:50.98. This time
should certainly hold up for Nationals.

In the Pole Vault, Lauren Kuntz '13 did not seem as into the competition as
she should have been, but still vaulted 11-5 3/4. Joanna Chen '15 and Marissa
Engle '15 stayed consistent by vaulting 10-6 once again. Kate Wymbs '14 also
was consistent, clearing 10-0 for the second week in a row.

Kristine Bunker '14 and Preethi Vaidyanathan '15 tested the soft BU infield in
the High Jump, but did not perform at their usual level, both clearing 5-0
1/4, far from their 5-3 3/4 best.

The first event on Saturday, and the only women's event that day, was the DMR.
Huang was a bit nervous about running the 1200 leg, but it only served to get
the adrenaline going as she split 3:38 to put MIT in the thick of the race.
Gross ran the 400 leg and split 59, although she ran the first 200 too slow.
Simmons ran the 800 leg, splitting an excellent 2:15. Louise van den Heuvel
anchored, running quarter splits of 71, 75, 77 and 76 to run a 4:59 1600. This
gave the team an 11:51.33, one of the top times in the country for Division
III.

The men took to the track next, and opened up with the DMR. Even though MIT
set a school record last year with all sophomores, only one of those four were
on this year's unit, mostly due to those folks still rounding themselves into
championship condition and the addition of a strong freshman class and
developing sophomore runners. Chadd Kiggins '15 led off with the 1200 leg and
ran perhaps his best race of the year. Going out with the leaders and
competing the entire race, he split 59.9 and 2:02.1 before kicking it in with
a very solid 3:03.5. David Way '13, ran the 400 in 51.1, keeping MIT
competitive in the fast section. Pat Marx '13, the only returning leg from
last year's unit, crushed a 1:52.1 to move MIT up in the pack. Justin Bullock
'14 ran the race of his life despite going out in 59.7. He was able to close
in 62 to finish in 4:09.1, giving MIT an overall time of 9:55.71. That time
may hold up for the NCAA Championship, but MIT will be prepared to race again
in three weeks at the ECAC Championship at the NY Armory.

In the 400, Tyler Singer-Clark '14 shook off the effects of a cold to run a
personal indoor best of 50.08. Right behind him in another section was Nick
Diamantoni '15, who came close to a personal best, finishing in 50.58.

Both Mac Gager '14 and David Way '13 delivered season bests in the 500. Gager
went out in 24.4 and finished in 1:05.99. Way split 24.5 and 50.9 before
finishing in 1:06.21.

As a warmup to the 200 later in the meet, Josh Duncavage '13 and Michael
DuPlessis '14 raced in the 60 Meter High Hurdles and the 60 Meter Dash
respectively. Duncavage did not race well, hurdling in 8.80. DuPlessis had a
good start and nice acceleration phase, but the slow surface only netted him a
7.13.

In the Mile Run, Kyle Hannon '13 found the magic that made him one of the best
milers in the country the past two years, as he buckled down in the second
half of the race to run a personal best in the open mile of 4:09.79. Hannon
negatively split the race, running the second 880 in 2:03.8 and the final 440
in 59.4.

Duncavage came back in the 200, but drew lane two, guaranteeing a poor time,
which happened with a 22.60. Singer-Clark also drew lane two and it showed
with his 23.04. DuPlessis decided to tie his shoe as his section was getting
on the track and the starter did not wait for him, which resulted in a DNR for
DuPlessis.

Marx returned in the 800 to see if he could get a national qualifying time. He
went out well in 26.4 and 54.9, but then backed off a bit in the next 200 and
lost a little of the edge. Nevertheless he ran his second 1:52 of the day,
this one a 1:52.86. A couple of sections later, Kiggins and Sam Parker '15
took to the track. Parker took off as if he thought it was a 400, opening up
in 24 and 51, while Kiggins was back at a very respectable 56. It turned out
that Parker cut in early and knew it so he just took off out of anger.
However, it did not appear the officials caught it. Nevertheless, after his
1:22 600, Parker cashed in. Kiggins went on to run an indoor PR of 1:54.64.

In the 1000, MIT finally came to play. Bullock returned from is epic anchor
and delivered a very well run 2:28.20. Stephen Serene '12 displayed the kick
that earned him the New England Division III title in 2011, running 2:30.09
this time. Jared Forman '13 ran an even split 2:31.45 as did Logan Trimble '13
with a 2:31.80 and Gil O'Neil '13, running 2:31.92.

In the Pole Vault, Nathan Peterson '12 finished second with a vault of 15-3.
Ben Schreck '15 got back on the horse and vaulted 14-1 1/4.

The final event of the day for Tech was the 4x400 Relay. Hoping to go four for
four with National qualifying relay performances, Singer-Clark, Gager,
Diamantoni and Marx returned to the banked oval one more time. Singer-Clark
got things rolling with an excellent 50.1 leadoff leg. Gager made a fine
handoff and got out very well, coming through the first 200 in 23.1. Appearing
to not slow down at all, Gager flew down the home stretch to clock 48.9.
Diamantoni put forth the effort but was only able to split 50.5. Marx made up
significant ground on the field as he closed in 49.2. The overall time of
3:18.75 is the second fastest in New England Division III and ranks 12th on
the NCAA list.

Back at MIT, the Coed II meet was going on. MIT had most of the short
sprinters, hurdlers and field event athletes at this meet. The top performance
by an MIT athlete was by CK Umachi '12, who threw 63' 7" in the Weight Throw,
the fourth best throw on the NCAA list and the top throw in New England.
Nearly equal in value to the team was Jackson Wirekoh's '13 45' 0 1/4" leap in
the Triple Jump. Wirekoh had been unable to practice since mid-December due to
an infection. Practicing for the first time this week, it was questionable if
he could produce a qualifying jump for next week's New England Division III
Championship. Wirekoh not only qualified, his jump ranks 10th on the New
England list. Also competing well for the men were Matt Jordan '15, who broke
16 minutes in the 5K for the first time, running 15:57.44, and John Thomas
'15, who backed up his 6-3 1/4 High Jump with a PR of 23.65 victory in the
200.

On the women's side, Jackie Brew returned to competition one day after the
Valentine's Meet to run a PR of 7.45 in the 55 Dash and another one of 7.50 in
the 55HH. Preethi Vaidyanathan '15 won the High Jump at 5-3 3/4, which matches
her personal best. Veronica Szklarzewski '15 ran a PR of 7.59 in the 55 Dash
and participated in the Long Jump for the first time this year, qualifying the
next weekend's championship with a 16-7 3/4 performance.

Next Friday and Saturday MIT competes in the New England Division III
Championship. The men travel to Springfield College where they hope to
threepeat while the women compete at Smith College where they hope to back up
their victory in the Outdoor Championship last spring.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



