


**ALUMNI WIN 4TH IN A ROW WITH CLOSE WIN IN LAST EVENT**



Cambridge, MA

December 12, 1998

The 25th annual Alumni Meet went to the Alumni in a very close meet that came
down to the last event, the 800 Relay, with the Alumni behind by one point.
Virtually side by side at the second handoff, freshman Kevin Atkinson pulled
his hamstring on his third step, clinching the fourth victory in succession
for the Has-Beens.

With Bill Singhose '90, gone to Georgia Tech as a new faculty member, the
Varsity thought the meet might have a different outcome in 1998. Bill
successfully rounded up 11 Alumni to attempt the meet defense.

The Varsity began practice on November 2 with an intense 3 week conditioning
period. The Monday and Tuesday after that we did testing in a number of
events. After Thanksgiving, we began event specific training, emphasizing the
basics and strength. With only 2 weeks of event work, coupled with the fatigue
that sets in around exam time, reality was in favor of the more experienced
Alumni, even if there were only 11 of them.

Singhose led the way from the beginning with a 21'4" long jump. Captain Ravi
Sastry '99, injured since last outdoor season has been able to do very little
in the way of getting prepared for the season other than some pool work and a
few drills and weight training. It showed, as Ravi was only able to jump 20'5
1/2" for second. Kevin Scannell '91, flew in to take third with a 19'6 1/2"
effort. Morio Alexander '96, also appeared for the Alums, but was relegated to
4th place with a 19' 4 1/4" leap.

At the same time, the 35 lb. Wt. was taking place. Once again, the Alumni were
victorious with John-Paul Clarke '91, now a professor at MIT, taking honors
with a heave of 46' 9 1/2". I cannot remember the last time a varsity member
has won the Weight Throw in the Alumni Meet. Patrick Dannen '98, also tried
the weight, which he rarely did while a member of the varsity team, but could
only manage 35'11".

The High Jump and Pole Vault began a half hour later, but the results were the
same. Singhose won both with efforts of 6'0", and 15'6" in the High Jump and
Pole Vault respectively. The Varsity managed 2nd and 3rd in both, but that may
have been because there were no other Alumni entered. Sastry also jumped 6'0"
but lost on misses. Both Sam Thibault '00, and Matt Potts '00, qualified for
the New England Division III Championships by clearing 13' 3", and 13'
respectively.

So, behind 21-15, the Varsity had little to look forward to in the two
remaining field events. Singhose won both the Shot Put (44' 6 1/2"), and the
Triple Jump (43' 9 1/4"). He was supported by efforts from Dannen in the Shot
(42' 7 3/4"), and by Alexander in the Triple (43' 0 1/2"). The Varsity was now
behind 37-17.

Without Ethan Crain able to make the trip, the Varsity began to turn things
around in the 1500 with a sweep led by Sean Montgomery '01, running 4:07.3.
Close behind were Leif Seed '99, with a 4:08.3, and Dan Feldman '02, with a
4:09.7. Dev Sinha '93, visiting us from Brown, tried unsuccessfully to prevent
the Varsity sweep.

In the High Hurdles, Sastry was hoping to repeat last year's victory over
Singhose, but after shaking up the field with a non-called flinch at the
start, Singhose led the entire way, winning in a photo finish.

The 400 saw another sweep by the Varsity. Neither Mark Dunzo '91, nor Akin
Aina '96, could be convinced to lend their services to their former specialty,
preferring to take on the 55 and 200. Todd Rosenfield '01, led the sweep with
a 52.7 effort. Yuval Mazor '02, and Neal Karchem '99, finished the scoring for
the Varsity. Elliot Mason '95, made a valiant effort but could not break up
the threesome.

The dash was certainly one of the best events of the day. Sastry was hoping to
up end both Dunzo and Aina. Starting poorly, and well behind Aina, Sastry
began the comeback. At the line, even with Finish Lynx providing the photo, it
was impossible to determine a winner. All three were timed in 6.5, with Aina
on the outside and Dunzo on the inside. Sastry was sandwiched in the middle
and being much smaller than either of his opponents, could not be seen except
for his nose and foot, both of which were in front but are not part of the
torso. It was determined that Dunzo and Sastry would split first place and
Aina would claim third.

The Alumni were only up by 4 points now and the Varsity could smell victory.
The 800 was next and once again the Varsity came up with a sweep. Again,
Montgomery led the way with a fine 1:58.7. Seed was again the bridesmaid with
John Biesiadecki '01, finishing up for third. Chuck Van Buren '98, attempted
to keep the Varsity at bay but was unsuccessful.

Now ahead for the first time, the Varsity was ready for the 200. Apparently,
so were the Alumni. Sastry pulled his hamstring on the backstretch, and Aina
and Dunzo cruised to a 1-2 finish in 23.4 and 23.7 respectively.

Down by 2 entering the 5000, the Varsity was pleased to see that Jesse Darley
did not make the meet. However, Terry McNatt '87, did, and that is usually
enough. Terry let the Varsity runners do the work. Chris McGuire '00, led the
first half of the race along with Mike Parkins '99, and freshman Dan Feldman.
As the pace slowed to 76 pace after the 1 1/2 mile mark, Parkins and Feldman
tried to push the pace. Reluctant to take the lead as a freshman, Dan waited
until the 2 1/2 mark to move. When the leaders slowed to 78 pace he took off
and ran 3:00 for the final 1000 meters to nearly take down McGuire's freshman
record of 15:10. Feldman was clocked in 15:12.6. McNatt outkicked Parkins and
McGuire to run 15:15.3 and finish 2nd.

Up by one point, the Varsity put their best foot forward in the 4x200 Relay.
The Alumni had never won this event, but fielded a formidable team of
Singhose, Aina, Alexander, and Dunzo. Mazor led off for the Varsity, but
brought the baton in slightly behind Singhose. Karchem was next, running a
great leg, and handing the baton off to Atkinson even with the Alumni. About
to take the lead on Alexander, Atkinson pulled up with a hamstring injury,
succumbing to the Alumni once again. The much anticipated showdown of anchors
Montgomery and Dunzo was not to be.

Next year vow the Varsity.


**MIT HAS GOOD DAY IN FINAL TUNE-UP FOR QUAD CUP**

**JANUARY 9, 1999**

On Saturday, MIT hosted the annual Beaver Relays. This is typically a non
scoring invitational designed for the athletes to regain their sense of
competition after the long holiday break. MIT appeared unusually prepared for
the competition, resulting in some outstanding performances for this early in
the season.

The Pentathlon, a multi-event combining the performances of the 55HH, Long
Jump, Shot Put, High Jump, and 1000 Meters, started the meet off at 9:30. By
the event's end at 1:00, MIT freshman, Jordan Alperin, was in front with 2817
points. Jordan narrowly held off John Nadeau from Keene State, who had a very
fast 1000 meters to move into 2nd place ahead of MIT's Peter Bluvas '01, 2805
points to 2793 respectively.

MIT's throwers all had season bests in the 35 Lb. Weight Throw. Jason Dailey
'99, led the way by winning the event with a throw of 49-11, qualifying him
for the New England Div. III Championship, and missing the All Division New
England Championship by 1 inch. Todd Chamoy '99, threw 45-6 1/2 for second.

Senior Captain, Ravi Sastry, was out of the meet while his hamstring heels
from an early season pull. Ravi is a pentathlete who is one of the best
hurdlers and long jumpers in New England. The Long Jump was not the same
without him. Tuft's Oliver Wong won the event with a 21-0 3/4 effort. The
closest competitor was MIT's Robbie Gray '02, who had a leap of 19-10 1/4.

In the Triple Jump, Tech had four of the five top jumps, but once again, Wong
from Tufts won the event. Both Gray and Kalpak Kothari '01, jumped over 40'
with 40-08 3/4, and 40-05 respectively.

The Pole Vault, usually a strong event for MIT, continued that trend. Sam
Thibault '00, jumped a season best of 13-06, and Matt Potts '00 cleared 13-00
for a 1-2 finish. The other vertical jump, the High Jump, only had one Tech
entry due to the participation by the other MIT jumpers in the pentathlon.

With the loss of George Torres '99, due to withdrawal from MIT, the throws are
certainly going to be weaker. However, as evidenced by the Weight Throw, the
throwers are obviously stepping up. In the Shot Put, Bluvas returned from his
pentathlon effort to turn in a 40-10 1/2 for 2nd place. In third was Brian
Rogers '01, with a heave of 40-10 1/4.

On the track, things got started off with the 3000\. Freshman Dan Feldman,
continued his winning ways by taking the lead right from the start and never
looking back while running an 8:57.37. Mike Parkins '99, was second with a
9:05.22 run. Phil Loiselle '01, was 4th with a 9:12.11, and Chris McGuire '00,
was not quite himself, running a 9:16.80 for 5th.

Next on the track was the 5000. MIT continued to show their distance dominance
by going 1-2-3. Mark Strauss '01, ran a 15:30.97 for 1st place, becoming the
4th MIT runner this year to run 15:30 or better. Nearly breaking 16:00 was Ed
Keehr '01, running 16:00.36 for 2nd. Liyan Guo '01, was 3rd with a 16:05.58.

Leif Seed '99, is not quite his competitive self as yet, and it showed, as he
never challenged for the lead, getting 2nd with a 4:29.16 performance in the
Mile Run. Since the meet was non-scoring, Sean Montgomery '01, passed up the
Mile so he could concentrate on the 800. With the exception of a slow 2nd 200,
Sean concentrated very well, running away with the half in 1:56.50. The other
MIT 800 runners did not fair so well, with the exception of a personal best by
Damian Plummer '02, of 2:05.94.

Tech's top two pentathletes came back in the high hurdles to claim first and
second. Alperin won with a 8.55, while Bluvas was second in 8:56. In the other
sprint event, Gray ran a personal best of 6.79, losing to Barrer from Tufts
with the same time. Gray's time qualified him for the New England Division III
Championships. Other personal bests were claimed by Roy Emanuel '99, in 6.98,
and Neal Karchem '99 in 7.01.

Todd Rosenfield '01, seeded in the slower section, ran a personal best of
52.03 to win the event. Yuval Mazor '02, ran leaning back the entire race,
which cost him in the end as he faded to 3rd in the fast section with a 52.59.
Freshman Alan Raphael also ran well with a 53.35 clocking.

Running the 55 instead of the 400 as the first event seemed to favor Karchem
regarding his 200 performance as he ran a personal best of 23.96 to win his
section and claim 3rd overall. Kamal Mokeddem '01, also ran well with a season
best of 24.21.

The relays were supposed to be the strongest of suits for Tech as most of the
runners had only run 1 race and had plenty of time to recover. The Distance
Medley Relay did not start off well as McGuire ran poorly with a 3:25 1200 to
put the Engineers 10 seconds back after the first leg. Ashley Clayborne '99,
lost a little more ground as he ran a full second slower in the 400 leg than
he ran in the open 400. Loiselle kept the gap constant with a 2:06 800, and
Feldman, whose heart was in it, was not up to the task of catching Coast Guard
and Tufts. His 4:32 made up a couple of seconds, but not enough to be
competitive.

The 1600 Relay went much better for MIT in terms of winning, but not in time.
Once again, the Engineers could not find a way to match their open
performances. Rosenfield led off with a 53.1, followed by a 54.1 from Raphael.
Mazor clinched the victory with a 52.9, and Karchem put the finishing touches
on with a 53.5. The overall time of 3:34.00 was 6 seconds slower than was
hoped for.

The 3200 Relay was very similar to the 1600 Relay. Two time defending Division
III Champions, MIT was hoping for a sub 8:00 effort. John Biesiadecki '01, led
off with a 2:07 to put Tech in a big hole time wise, and in 2nd place. Seed
really attacked his leg, but faded a little in the final 200 to run a 2:01.
Comfortably in the lead, Parkins only had to focus on running as close to 2:00
as possible. Mike did pretty well, running an even paced 2:02. Montgomery
anchored home the winning relay with another great half of 1:57, for an
overall time of 8:09.28.

Next week, MIT will be host to the first Quad Cup meet of the season. Visiting
will be Coast Guard, Tufts, and WPI. The first event will kick off at 1:00.



RETURN TO INDOOR




**MIT RUNNERS CONTINUE ONSLAUGHT ON RECORDS**

March 6, 1999

MIT's Men's Track and Field Team took advantage of two championship meets in
town to qualify Leif Seed in the 800, and improve Dan Feldman's national
qualifying mark in the 5000.

The IC4A Championships, being held at the Reggie Lewis Center in Boston, have
very strict qualifying standards. Only three MIT runners had qualified; Sean
Montgomery in the 1500, Mark Strauss in the 5000, and Leif Seed in the 1000.
Sean could not run because of his broken toe, and Mark was not going to run in
the 5000 because he would have to run on Sunday, which would not give him
adequate recovery for the 5000 at Nationals on Friday. Leif could run the
1000, but he wanted to see if he could qualify for nationals in the 800 since
there is no 1000 at the National Championships.

Current IC4A rules allow a team one free track and one free field entry if no
other track or field qualifier are competing in the meet. MIT decided to see
if Seed could qualify in the 800 even though he had only run 1:58 this season,
a full 4 seconds slower than the next fastest qualifier. Leif took advantage
of the quality field, running 26, 54, and 1:23 splits en route to a 1:53.83
performance. While this time easily met the 1:55 provisional standard for
nationals, it still only put Leif about 16th on the qualifying list. Needing a
1:52.24 to meet the automatic standard, Leif decided to go join his teammates
at Boston University to give the 800 another try.

Leif had been entered in the ECAC meet all along, but with a 1:58 seed, and
the 800 being run in sections on time, he would be running against other 1:57
and 1:58 runners. Now, with his 1:53 seed, he would be guaranteed the fast
section. There were 5 hours between races, but it would be a serious challenge
nevertheless.

The ECAC 800 had similar splits. The 200 was again 26, the 400 a little slower
in 55, but the 600 was right back on with a 1:23.9. Leif's legs could not
respond when he needed it most, finishing in 1:55.02. It will be a "wait and
see" on whether or not Leif gets into the national field.

In the 5000, Dan Feldman and Chris McGuire were trying to better their
provisional qualifying times, while Mike Parkins was trying to get his first
qualifying performance. The pace was certainly fast enough with the first mile
being run in 4:38. By the 2 mile mark, Chris and Mike had begun to fall back a
little, but Dan was still in the lead pack of three, coming through in 9:25.
The third mile slowed a little with a couple of 74 second quarters, which
brought them through 3 miles in 14:18. Dan was not able to finish strong
enough to meet the 14:47 automatic qualifying time, but he did lower his own
freshman record to 14:52.08. McGuire was not able to improve his time, running
15:03.69. Parkins ran a season best of 15:06.28. It is not likely Dan and
Chris will make it in nationals with their times of 14:52 and 14:56 but will
be entered just in case.

Not given the opportunity to run the 1000 at the New England Division III
Championship so that the team would have a stronger 3200 Relay, Phil Loiselle
was given the chance here. Phil ran a very evenly paced race to a PR of
2:33.03. Phil's time was good enough to put him 10th on the all-time 1000
list.

Mark Strauss, already qualified automatically in the 5000, decided to enter
the 3000 to get a little speed work and to see if he could get the 3000 school
record. Basically a 2 man race between Strauss and Paul Alsdorf of Williams,
the runner with the fastest 5K in the country for Division III, the pace of
4:31 at the mile left the rest of the field behind. The next 3 quarters were
in 70, 68, and 68, putting Mark a little off the pace to get the record, as he
fell off of Alsdorf by about 5 seconds. Making a furious effort to reclaim the
race and to get the record, Mark ran a 31 last 200. He fell 2 seconds short of
the former, and less than a second of the latter. Nevertheless the effort was
a great one, giving notice that he is ready for nationals next week.

Also competing were Todd Chamoy and Jason Dailey in the Weight Throw. Both are
seniors and both are close to the provisional qualifying mark. However,
neither of them were able to put together a good throw as they finished with
47-5 3/4, and 45-11 1/4 respectively.

Sam Thibault vaulted to see if he could improve on his 13-6 season best but
after a couple of good attempts at 13-9 he missed his final attempt, settling
for a 13-3 mark.

On Monday night, the web site at Ohio Northern
<http://www.onu.edu/user/fs/tglon/winter/ncaa.html> will list those who are in
the National Championship.



RETURN TO INDOOR


**STRAUSS HAS A BAD DAY AT NCAAs**



March 12, 1999

Ada, Ohio

MIT's sole representative at the NCAA Division III Championships was Mark
Strauss '01, racing in the 5000 meters. Four other runners on the Men's team
had qualified provisionally, but none were selected to round out the 11-13 man
fields.

Mark's run was scheduled for 7:05 on Friday night, which tends to fit well
with the Tech competitors and their odd sleeping schedules. Having run two
great races in back to back weeks, there was hope for an All-American
performance.

The pace began slowly with a 73 second first quarter. The next quarter was 71
and stayed that way. Mark moved up to the front once the pace settled at the
3/4 mile mark. However, he seemed to fall asleep and drift to the back during
the next quarter. He gradually drifted a little behind the group of runners as
he continued his 73 second quarters while the leaders were running 71s. By the
1 3/4 mark, Strauss seemed to give up as his pace suddenly fell to 86 seconds
per quarter. The last mile was 5:46 as Strauss seemed totally used up,
finishing in 16:18, far off his varsity record of 14:43, set two weeks ago.

The Men's team will be going to California March 19-28 to compete in the Santa
Barbara Relays on March 20, and the UCSD Invitational on March 27.



RETURN TO INDOOR


**Strauss Sets Varsity 5000 Record at NEIAAA Championships**

**Qualifies For Nationals With Mark**

February 26-27, 1999

The Intercollegiate Track and Field Championships were held at Boston
University this past Friday and Saturday. The meet showcases the best men's
track and field performers in all three divisions throughout New England.

For MIT's part, unless the team has a really good opportunity to place among
the top 10 teams, the meet is used to provide those who have an opportunity to
qualify for nationals, or those who want to extend a good season. For the rest
of the team, getting an early start on Outdoor Track and Field, or in a few
guys case, getting healthy is the goal.

Todd Chamoy, a qualifier in the Weight Throw, was the first to compete. Todd
did not have much success in the circle and had to settle with a mark of 46-9.

Neal Karchem was first on the track in the 500 Meter Run. Neal was hoping to
make the MIT top 10 list in this event and needed a huge personal best of
1:07.49 to do it. Neal went out hard at the 200 and came through the 400 in
good position with a 52.7. However, he was not able to maintain his speed in
the final 100 as he finished just short of his goal with a 1:07.86.

In the 1000 Meters, Leif Seed, seeded 8th, was hoping to place a little higher
and possibly score. In the trials on Friday Leif ran with the leaders in his
heat through even splits of 29, 59, 1:29, and 2:00 before finishing with a
2:30.07. Leif finished 2nd in his heat, which was enough to get him into
Saturday's final.

In the final, Leif started in the back to stay clear of contact and too fast a
start, but still came through 200 n 28. By the 400 the pace had slowed to 58
seconds and Leif was still in the rear although less than 1 second behind the
leader. At the end of the 3rd lap, separation began to take place, forcing
Leif to move up to 5th place to stay with the leaders. The pace picked up and
the group came through in 1:57. Leif looked as though he had an opportunity to
sprint to the lead on the back straight but did not seize it. He stayed his
ground and finished with a solid 5th place, tying Ethan Crain's Varsity Record
of 2:27.14.

The last event for MIT on Friday was the 5000 Meter Run. In the slow section,
Chris McGuire and Mike Parkins were the top 2 seeds, both at 15:16. Chris took
the lead at the gun and never relented. Chris and Mike came through the 1st
mile in 4:45 in their effort to qualify for nationals. Maintaining pace, they
ran the 2nd mile in 4:48, putting themselves in great position to qualify.
Beginning the third mile, Mike began to fall back as McGuire continued to hold
pace. Chris slowed slightly with a 4:50 3rd mile, but kicked in with a 33 last
200 to provisionally qualify in 14:56.98. Mike slowed due to a pain in his
groin, but managed to run a season best of 15:07.62 and finish 2nd.

The fast section had two more Tech runners, Mark Strauss and Dan Feldman. Dan
was still feeling the effects of the flu but thought he was well enough to
race. The race immediately broke up into 3 groups, two runners from Brown
running well up front, followed by two runners from UMass, who were themselves
well in front of the rest of the pack. At the mile mark, the groups were about
the same, but the pack, coming through in 4:42 had closed the gap on the UMass
runners. By the two mile, Feldman started to show the signs of his illness as
he fell slightly behind the pack at 9:31. Strauss was right with the pack who
had not only caught the two UMass runners but also one of the Brown runners.
The pack opened up a 20 meter lead on Strauss with only 1000 meters to go.
With 600 meters to go, Strauss decided to go for it, running a 68 quarter to
put himself only 15 meters out of 2nd. Running the final 200 in 31 seconds,
Strauss moved into 3rd place and pulled up alongside 2nd. However the 2nd
place runner made a sprint of his own, finishing less than 1 second ahead of
Strauss, who qualified for nationals with a school record of 14:43.29. Feldman
faded to 15:14.95, not too bad for a freshman with the flu. MIT now has three
individuals provisionally or automatically qualified for nationals and three
of the 16 fastest times in the country for Division III.

The final effort for MIT was in the Triple Jump where Kalpak Kothari was
trying to extend his season another week. Kalpak made the finals with a 43-10
effort, and had a 1 inch foul that was over 45 feet, but did not place.

Next week, a few guys still trying to qualify, or improve their position for
nationals, will be competing either at the IC4A Championships at the new
Reggie Lewis Track in Boston, or the ECAC Division III Meet at Boston
University.


**MIT FINISHES 2ND IN NEW ENGLAND DIVISION III CHAMPIONSHIP**

**14 Personal Bests Lead The Way**



February 20, 1999

For the third year in a row, MIT finished second in the Indoor New England
Division III Championships. Relying on many high places in many events, but no
individual champions, MIT managed to distance themselves from 3rd place
Wheaton College, but could not catch the equally diverse and slightly more
talented Williams College team.

Going into the meet, MIT was seeded to score 74 points to Wheaton's 72, and
Williams' 83. However, MIT was nursing a lot of injuries that would ultimately
prove to be the biggest enemy. Team co-captain Ravi Sastry, seeded 2nd in the
Pentathlon, and High Hurdles, and 5th in the Long Jump, was hurting from both
a bad back and a previously torn hamstring. Sam Thibault, seeded 3rd in the
Pole Vault was hoping his ankle would allow him to run full speed. Kalpak
Kothari, seeded 6th in the Triple Jump, has a mysterious ankle problem that
hurts whenever he jumps. Jordan Alperin, seeded 4th in the Pentathlon and
entered in the High Jump, had not been at practice all week due to a bout with
the flu. Finally, Sean Montgomery, seeded 2nd in the 1500 and 5th in the 800,
as well as anchor in the 1600 Relay, was going to try to run with a broken big
toe.

The Pentathlon was scheduled to be the first event, and only event on Friday.
MIT had 4 of the 12 qualifiers and was seeded to score 13 points. The first
event, the High Hurdles went well for MIT, leaving the Sastry in first,
Alperin in 2nd, Peter Bluvas in 3rd, and Roger Nielsen in 6th. After the next
event, which is the Long Jump, Tech still had a hold on 1st, 2nd, and 4th. The
Shot Put allowed Bluvas to move from 4th to 1st as he threw a PR of 42-2 3/4.
Sastry moved down to 2nd, and Alperin remained in 4th. The High Jump, usually
very kind to MIT in the Pentathlon, allowed the eventual winner from Trinity
College to move into 1st place with a 6-7 jump. Ravi's back did not allow him
to jump higher than 5-10 1/2, pushing him to 3rd. MIT still had 2nd, 3rd, and
4th, with Nielsen having moved up to 5th. However, with Sastry nursing his
hamstring most of the year, Alperin out with the flu, and Nielsen working off
an injured ankle from early in the season, the distance training had been a
little less than prescribed. The 1000 was going to be a nail biter. The Tech
multi-eventers came through, holding onto 2nd, 3rd, and 4th. Nielsen slipped
to 7th, just 21 points out of scoring. The 18 point lead seemed like a great
start.

Day 2 began with the trials in all running events from the 600 - down. Ravi
rebounded from his pentathlon to make it into the hurdles finals. Robbie Gray,
seeded 9th, made it through the first round of the dash, but could not advance
to the finals. Todd Rosenfield, seeded 11th in the 400, got the break but died
in the final 100 to just miss advancing in the 400. Neal Karchem, seeded 8th
in the 600, ran a PR of 1:25.33 to make into the finals.

Over in the field events, Ravi staked claim to 1st place in the Long Jump
coming out of the trials with a PR of 22-3 1/2, finally making the indoor top
10 list. However, in the last two rounds, two jumpers passed him to push him
to 3rd, still 2 places higher than he was seeded.

Not to be outdone in the horizontal jumps, Kalpak sucked up the pain in his
ankle and jumped into the lead on his final jump with a PR of 44-6 1/2 only to
have the previous leader pass him back to win the event. Going from 6th seed
to finish 2nd was certainly going to help MIT.

Sean Montgomery was ready to test out his toe in the 1500 as the finals of the
running events were getting underway. Sean started off okay, but it was
apparent that he was not running with his usual fluid stride. At the half it
was obvious that Sean was struggling. Finishing in the back of the pack, it
was obvious that using a different stride pattern was involving different
muscles that could not handle what was being asked of them.

Ravi was up next in the High Hurdles and had a great race. He started well out
of the blocks, was with the leaders early, then pulled away slightly going
into the 5th hurdle. Ravi clipped the 5th hurdle and came down a little off
balance, which was enough to allow the top seeded Middlebury hurdler to edge
him out at the line. Ravi ran a personal best of 7.85 to complete his
fantastic weekend and 20 point contribution.

The Pole Vault and High Jump were getting under way at this time. The Vault
was opening at 12-6, which was sure to trim the field quickly. MIT's three
entries all cleared opening height and 13-0 as well. Sam Sidiqi, clearing 13-0
on his first effort, was in sole possession of 4th place but could not make
13-6. Matt Potts, who needed 3 attempts to make 13-0, was just out of the
money, finishing 7th. Sam Thibault made 13-6 and finished 2nd to give MIT a
total of 12 points. Jordan Alperin was able to shake off the effects of his
flu for yet another day, and the pentathlon from the day before, to clear both
5-11, and 6-1 on his first attempts. Even though Jordan made 2 good attempts
at 6-3, he could not clear it. His effort earned him a 3 way tie for 5th, good
enough for 1 point.

Neal was up next in the 600 final. Although he was guaranteed a point just for
finishing, Neal was not satisfied with just placing higher than he was seeded.
Coming through the 400 in 54.7, Neal moved into 4th place and would not give
it up, running a PR of 1:24.92 and securing 4 points for MIT.

Sean was up again in the 800 to give his toe another try. He seemed to have
fixed his stride problem, but had apparently lost some confidence. He
immediately settled into the middle of the pack rather than his customary
place among the leaders. Nevertheless, Sean came through the 600 in 1:26 and
was in position to do something in the race. However, the confidence was not
there, and the toe did not cooperate, giving Sean a 1:58.85 for his efforts,
which were way above the call of duty.

In the 1000, Leif went with leaders in an attempt to win the race. Running
even splits of 30. seconds up through the 800, it looked as though Leif would
pull it off. However, he was not quite able to reel in the leaders, finishing
4 tenths out of first for a third place finish and PR of 2:31.39.

Going into the 3000, Wheaton College was leading with 66 points, but there
only scoring potential remaining was in the 1600 Relay. Williams was 1/2 point
ahead of MIT, 63.5 to 63, with both schools having equal opportunity in the
distances, but Williams had the edge in the relays. Going by the seeds,
Williams was expected to garner 40 points in the remaining events, with MIT
securing 29, and Wheaton scoring 10.

The race was tight through 2600 meters for the leaders, which included Mike
Parkins and Mark Strauss. Robert Mitchell of Amherst, the winner in the 1500,
was able to pull away at the end to win in 8:30.74. Parkins held on to run a
PR of 8:33. 72 and finish 3rd. Mark faded in the last 200, but still placed
6th with a 8:38.94. Williams was not up by 5 1/2 after having placed 2nd and
4th. MIT was now in 2nd place, ahead of Wheaton.

Dan Feldman was seeded 1st in the 5000, but had already begun to feel the
effects of the flu, which was beginning to invade his system. This combined
with wasting too much energy competing for position in the first mile took
their toll on Dan. He soon lost contact with the two leaders, one of who was a
Williams' runner, but he was able to maintain a strong hold on 3rd place.
Chris McGuire, who had fallen off the pace early, was in a solid 4th position
and moving up. Chris moved past Dan with 400 meters to go and finished in 3rd
with a season best of 15:16.04. Dan was well off his best, but under the
conditions competed well to finish in 4th with a 15:21.33. Williams and MIT
both scored 10 points in the event, so no ground was gained.

The DMR was next, and in an effort to score a point or two, Mark Strauss and
Mike Parkins were coming back from the 3000 with only 25 minutes recovery to
run the 1200 and 1600 legs respectively. Mark led off and was not able to put
together a solid time, leaving MIT in 11th position with a 3:21 1200. Ashley
Clayborne ran the 400 and moved MIT up 1 place with a 53.7 clocking. Ray
Molnar ran a personal best of 2:03.1 in the 800 to move MIT into 9th place.
Parkins took over virtually with no chance to score as the leaders were about
20 seconds ahead. Nevertheless, Mike put his head down and gave it an effort,
running a 4:29 mile to bring MIT into 7th, one place out of scoring. Williams
finished 3rd in the event, moving them 11 1/2 points ahead of MIT. Short of
dropping a baton, it seemed to be over.

The 1600 Relay for MIT, originally seeded 5th, was almost a lost cause due to
the loss of leadoff man, Yuval Mazor, out with a stress fracture, and Sean
being hindered with his broken toe. Robbie Gray, Neal Karchem, Todd
Rosenfield, and Sean put together a 3:31.86 effort, but were no where near
scoring. Williams finished 2nd to put the meet out of reach. Top seeded
Wheaton only managed a 5th place, which gave MIT 2nd place in the meet.

The final event, the 3200 Relay, had MIT seeded 3rd. The leadoff runner was
rookie, Damian Plummer. Damian ran a very strong race, died at the end, but
ran a personal best of 2:03.8 to start things off. Phil Loiselle, put together
a well run 1:59.9 effort to put MIT in 3rd position. Another rookie, Alan
Raphael, moved up from the 400 and ran a superb 2:01.5 to give MIT some
breathing room from 4th place Williams. Leif anchored, moving quickly up to
within 5 meters of 2nd place Brandeis, who was being anchored by defending
outdoor national 800 champion, Geoff Getz. Getz then pulled away, leaving Leif
to hold onto the predicted 3rd place with a cumulative time of 8:03.43.

Overall, MIT had a superb outing, and a very competitive effort, particularly
from those team leaders who were not in the best of health. Next week a
handful of Engineers will compete at the All New England Championship at
Boston University against the Division I colleges in New England.


**ENGINEERS START SEASON 2-0**

**MIT Too Much For Tufts and Coast Guard**

**January 16, 1999**

Saturday, MIT rose to the challenge and defeated Tufts and Coast Guard by a
score of 290.5 to 194.5 to 96. However it did not look like the meet was going
to end up in an MIT victory, much less a blowout.

Going into the 1998-99 Indoor Track season, the Engineers thought they would
be a very strong team that would not have too many problems during the regular
season with the exception of Williams College. With star performer, Ravi
Sastry '99, out with a hamstring injury, and some very impressive seeds
submitted by the Tufts' University Jumbos, it looked as though Tech was going
to have a long season.

With meets being run by computers these days, teams are required to make their
entries a couple of days before the meet. This also gives each team the
ability to mentally prepare for what awaits them. Tufts' seeds did what MIT
Coach Halston Taylor was not sure he could do by himself--psych the Engineers
up. Going by the seeds, Tufts was 14 point favorites. Given the rich rivalry
between the two teams, the threat of losing was all it took to get the
Engineers going.

Right out of the gate, MIT took charge. The 35 Lb. Weight was the first event
to finish, and Tech took the event with 19 points to Tufts' 12 (Quad Cup
scoring is 9-7-6-5-4-3-2-1). Jason Dailey '99 led the way with a 49-2 3/4
throw. Todd Chamoy '99, assisted with a 46-9 1/4 personal best for third
place.

The next event to end, the Pole Vault, was very big for MIT. Tech has 6
vaulters on the team. Since most teams are lucky to have 1, the advantage
usually is in favor of MIT. In this particular case, Tufts did not have a
vaulter. Tech's vaulters had to compete with two vaulters from Coast Guard,
and did so quite successfully with Sam Thibault '00, winning for the second
week in a row with a 13-3 effort. Matt Potts '00, again earned 2nd place with
a 13-0 vault. Also scoring for MIT was freshman Dan Kwon with a 11-6 effort
and Sam Sidiqi '99, who jumped 11-0.

The first running event final, the 1500, is one of the strongest for MIT, who
probably have 7 runners who can break 4:10. Quad Cup rules dictate that a team
can only enter 4 per event, but in this case 4 were enough. Coast Guard
runner, Mark Akus, took the pace out strong in 61 seconds for the 400 followed
by a runner from Tufts and the four entries from MIT. The Tech runners did not
plan to take the lead until after the 1000 meter mark, and they followed the
plan to perfection. Sean Montgomery '01 led the charge to the front, and was
followed by Dan Feldman '02, Mike Parkins '99, and Leif Seed '99. They held
this lead in the same order as the first three qualified for New England
Division IIIs, running 4:02.53, 4:03.74, 4:04.20, and 4:04.96 respectively.

After these first three events MIT was leading with 70 points to Tufts 17 and
Coast Guards 21. The Long Jump was finishing just about the same time as the
1500, and although Tufts' Rommel Childress took 1st place, MIT claimed 2-5
places for 22 more points to Tufts 15. Leading the way was freshman multi-
eventer Jordan Alperin with a 19-4 1/2 effort.

Without Sastry in the Long Jump, MIT's quality is lacking, and in the case of
the Hurdles, so is the depth. Rookies Alperin, and Peter Bluvas '01, stepped
up nicely and claimed 2nd and 3rd with times of 8.43, and 8.47. Tufts won this
event 18-13, showing good depth.

Another event that Sastry usually is a factor in is the High Jump. Fortunately
this is not a strong event for many teams, including Tufts and Coast Guard.
Both Childress from Tufts and Alperin jumped 6-2, Childress won on fewer
misses. Roger Nielsen '01, claimed a tie for 6th, and Sidiqi, 8th to help
MIT's cause. Tufts also won this event 17.5 to 10.5 for MIT.

The 400, usually a strong event for MIT, was diluted a bit when Neal Karchem
'99, was moved to the 55 to help make up for Sastry not running. Stepping up
for MIT were Todd Rosenfield '01, with a 3rd place effort of 52.20, Kamal
Mokeddem '01, running a personal best of 52.96 for 4th, and Ashley Clayborne
'99, with a personal best of 53.90 for 6th. Tufts took this event, but only
15-14.

In the Quad Cup Meets there is not only the 400 Meter, but also the 600, 800,
and 1000 meters, meaning a team has to have 16 400-800 runners to have the
necessary depth. MIT had two freshmen lead the way in the 600. Alan Raphael
was leading the way, when teammate Yuval Mazor tripped him up from behind in
an effort to go between him and a Tufts' runner. Mazor ended up going around
both of them to win in 1:27.02, but Raphael stumbled to 3rd place in 1:27.86.
Gus Blomquist '99, helped support with a great lean at the finish to claim
4th, giving MIT the event 21-14.

The 55 Dash went to Tufts freshman, Adam Barrer, who ran 6.69 to beat MIT
freshman Robbie Gray for the second week in a row. Karchem showed the move to
the dash was a good one as he claimed 4th. Roy Emanuel claimed 5th to keep
Tufts from catching up too much. At this point, the score was MIT 166.5 and
Tufts 116.5.

MIT's foursome who swept the 1500, were about to take over again in the 800
and 1000. First up was Parkins winning the 800. A Tufts runner set a vicious
early pace with Tech runners a good 30 meters back at the half way mark. The
Tufts runner began to fade and Parkins took advantage of it with a furious
kick to win in 2:01.72. MIT runners continued their dominance in the middle
distances, claiming 2nd, 4th, and 5th places to support Parkins' win.

In the 1000, Montgomery was racing a fresh Jeff Rasnake from Coast Guard, who
had won the Mile last week at the Beaver Relays, and ran the 3000 in 8:36
before Christmas. Montgomery took the lead with 400 to go and easily cruised
in with a 60 second last 400 to win in 2:34.60. Phil Loiselle '01, added
support with a personal best of 2:37.44 for 4th, followed by Feldman in
2:39.81. MIT won the 800 and 1000 by a 45-13 score over Tufts to pretty much
put the meet out of reach.

The Shot Put had been an event where Tech hoped to have a big breakthrough.
Starting off strong, but not able to finish with an answer to Tufts and Coast
Guard late efforts, MIT was only able to keep the lead constant. Brian Rogers
'01, led the way for the Engineers with a 40-4 1/2 effort.

The 200 has not been a strong event for MIT in quite some time. This year, it
looked like MIT could hold its own in the deuce. Again, the loss of Sastry has
taken a toll on those hopes. However, Karchem has stepped up of late, and did
so again with another sub 24 effort to claim 2nd in 23.97. Gray ran his best
200 of the season with a 4th place finish, followed by Alex Rodriguez in 6th.
Mokeddem would have finished 5th but was disqualified for running out of his
lane in the final curve.

Having a lot of depth allowed MIT to enter a fresh foursome in the 3000, the
last running event before the relays. Mark Strauss '01 led the way for MIT
with a 29 second final 200 meters to pull away from a Tufts runner, winning in
a personal best of 8:51.82. Chris McGuire '00, followed in third with a
8:55.35. Also scoring was Ed Keehr '01, and Liyan Guo '01 in 4th and 6th
respectively.

With 3 teams entered, the relays were scored 9-6-0, and in this case
insignificant to the outcome of the meet. MIT's squad of Rosenfield, Raphael,
Mazor, and Karchem led nearly from start to finish with a season best 3:31.78
run.

The final event was supposed to be the Distance Medley Relay, but the Triple
Jump was still being decided. This meant that Kalpak Kothari '01, the intended
400 leg in the DMR and battling for 1st place in the TJ, would not run.
Alperin took his place and brought MIT up to 2nd place ahead of Tufts after a
great run by Albert Hung '01, had put MIT well behind Coast Guard and Tufts.
The lead lasted for a second anyway. The Tufts runner woke up and sprinted
away, opening up a big lead going into the 800 leg. Out since the beginning of
Cross Country season, Ken Walker '01, made up considerable ground on Tufts
with a 2:06 leg before handing off to Loiselle. Loiselle ran a fine 4:33 1600
to pass the Tufts runner in the final lap to give MIT 38 different scorers in
the meet.

Next week, MIT travels to Bowdoin to compete against Tufts again, along with
Bates, Bowdoin, and Colby. It will take an equally strong effort to come away
from that meet with the undefeated mark intact.



RETURN TO INDOOR


**MIT MEN'S TRACK GOES 6-0 IN 2ND VICTORY**

**Feldman Sets Freshman 5000 Record**



JANUARY 23, 1999

The Men's Track and Field Team traveled to Brunswick, Maine this past Saturday
where Bowdoin College was hosting one of the 2nd Quad Cup Meets of the season.
Behind early, the Engineers made their typical strong comeback by winning
every event from the 800 Meters up, and both relays, to win the meet over
Tufts, Bates, Colby, and Bowdoin by the respective scores of 189 to 155.45, to
107.5, to 75, to 73 respectively.

Even though this league with the New England Division III Conference is called
the Quad Cup Series, the meets do not necessarily have 4 teams involved. Due
to the number of teams involved, the number of sites available, and those
schools who have one coach coaching both men and women, thus preferring coed
meets, the scheduling does not always render a perfect quad meet. In this
particular case, there were five teams involved.

One of the quirks of the schedule is, in an effort to see all of the teams in
a four week schedule, there are sometimes competitions where teams see each
other for a 2nd or 3rd time. After beating Tufts last week by nearly 100
points, MIT had a difficult time getting psyched up for a meet where Tufts was
once again expected to be the next best team. Coach Halston Taylor warned the
tracksters that Tufts would be greatly improved and wanting to exact some
payback for the previous week's defeat. Bates was known to have some strong
talent, but not quite enough depth to win in a meet that scores 8 places per
event. Likewise, Colby and Bowdoin have some particular strengths, but not
enough to be a contender for the victory. However, what can and did happen is
that the easy points that might be available when there are 3 teams are picked
up by someone else when there are 5 teams involved.

MIT started the meet with high hopes since Ravi Sastry '98, was attempting a
comeback from his early season hamstring injury. However, in the first event,
the Triple Jump, Robbie Gray '02, took one jump and announced he was done due
to his hamstring. Robbie is the teams 2nd best sprinter and triple jumper.
Consequently, Tech only scored 3rd and 8th in the Triple as Kalpak Kothari
'01, and Chris Kelly '02, survived the Tufts onslaught that saw them go from
2nd and 3rd to 1st and 2nd in the final round.

Likewise, in the Weight Throw, Jason Dailey '99, went from 5th to 7th in the
finals. After the first two events, Tufts was ahead 22-10. As the field events
continued, MIT did not get their expected points due to depth. Tech was
blanked in the Shot Put while Tufts garnered 7 more points. Sastry came
through big in the Long Jump with a 21-5 victory, but that was the only score
for the Techmen. Meanwhile, Tufts 2nd, 3rd, 6th, and 8th for 17 points, and
46-19 lead.

The vertical jumps started to turn things around for Tech. Jordan Alperin '02,
won the High Jump with a 6-2 effort, and Sastry and Sam Sidiqi '99, gathered a
5th and 8th to Tufts 2nd, 6th, and 7th. In the Pole Vault, Tech's known
strength was not evident as Bates and Bowdoin challenged. Matt Potts '00, one
of five vaulters to clear 13', won on fewer misses. Sam Thibault '00, was one
of the other, but he received 5th. Tufts did not score in the Pole Vault to
give MIT a deficit of 58-47 after the field events.

Sastry elected to pass on the 55 Dash in order to protect his hamstring, so
without him and Gray, MIT was blanked in a 2nd event. Unfortunately, Tufts
scored 17 points to make things very uncomfortable for Tech.

Sastry's move paid off in the hurdles, as he, Alperin, and Peter Bluvas '01,
took 1st, 4th, and 6th to start the comeback. Once again, MIT was needing the
strength of the 400 and up, and once again the athletes in those events
responded.

Todd Rosenfield '01, and Yuval Mazor '02, ran poor strategic races, but
nevertheless placed 5th and 6th against very strong competition in the 400. In
the 600, Neal Karchem '99, placed 2nd with a personal best of 1:27.20. He was
followed by Ashley Clayborne '99, in 4th and Alan Raphael '02, in 6th. In
these two events, Tufts scored only 12 points to MIT's 22.

In the 800 and 1000, MIT outscored Tufts 44 to 26 thanks in large part to the
strong efforts from the distance runners. Sean Montgomery '01, led the way in
the 800. While Leif Seed '99, did the same in the 1000\. Mike Parkins' 99,
finished strong in the 800 to edge two Tufts runners for 2nd place. John
Biesiadecki '01, and Ken Walker '01, followed suit in 5th and 6th place,
edging out a Tufts runner who claimed 7th. In the 1000, Phil Loiselle '01, and
Chris McGuire '00, fell off Leif's place a bit, but still claimed 3rd, and
4th. Matt Yarosz '02, scored his first varsity point with an 8th place effort.

The Mile Run, Tech's best event, fell victim to an inability to carry out the
game plan. Instead of running a strong pace and kicking with 600 to go, the
Engineers started with a pedestrian 68 for the first 400, and duplicated that
lack of effort on the 2nd 400. This set up the trailing Tufts and Bowdoin
runners to possibly steal the race. Fortunately, Tech's talent was a little
too much, as they garnered 1st, 2nd, 5th, and 7th places.

Going into the last 3 events, the 5000 and the two relays, MIT was only up by
11 1/2 points. Due to the depth of middle distance and distance runners on
MIT's squad, they were able to have four fresh bodies available for what
promised to be a very fast 5000. Freshman Dan Feldman, possibly a bit over
anxious after waiting around all day to run, took the lead right from the
start. Dan went out in 70 second 400s all the way through a 4:41 first mile.
Mark Strauss '01, was right behind Dan as was a very good Bates runner. The
crowd kept expecting Dan to self destruct, but with the MIT cheering him on,
Dan continued his torrid pace, slowing modestly to a 9:28 2 mile split. On his
own now, Dan slowed to 73 seconds per quarter, but finished strong with a 33
second last 200 to win in a nationally qualifying time of 14:54.27. A time
which blows away the previous freshman mark of 15:10.41 by teammate Chris
McGuire. Also running personal bests for MIT were Mark Strauss '01, getting
3rd in 15:04.36, Liyan Guo '01, running to a 7th place finish with a 15:44.3
effort, and Ed Keehr '01, coming back strong for a 15:45.6 8th place finish.
This give Tech 6 runners under 15:46 this season.

Tech's relay teams were as loaded as possible given the fatigue factor that
comes with a 3 hour meet. In the 1600 Relay, MIT led off with a strong leg
from Rosenfield, who nevertheless found himself in 3rd place at the handoff,
behind Tufts and Colby. Mazor ran a 51.8 leg to open up a 5 meter lead as he
handed off to a tired Karchem. Neal held his ground and gave Montgomery a 1
meter lead. The problem was that the 1 meter lead was against the defending
New England Division III Champion in the 400. Sean gave up the lead coming
down the homestretch the first time, but never lost contact. Coming down the
final homestretch, Sean opened it up and passed the Colby runner for 3:26.82
victory.

The final event, the 3200 Relay was not a dramatic, but close nevertheless.
Biesiadecki opened up with a modest 2:05 to put MIT down by a few meters.
Parkins quickly made up that difference and gave Loiselle a lead with a 2:02.
Phil held on to the lead and ran an outstanding 2:01 to give Seed a 10 meter
lead at the handoff. Seed did nothing to hurt that lead, running a strong 2:00
to give Tech the victory with a 8:10.28 to Tufts 8:12.79.

Next week, MIT puts its undefeated season on the line, at home, against
Williams, Bates, and WPI.



BACK TO INDOOR


**TECH LOSES TO WILLIAMS**

**Great Performances Not Enough For Engineers**

January 30, 1999

This Saturday at MIT, visiting Williams College, won the third Quad Cup Meet
of the season. In a match of unbeatens, Williams lived up to their favorite's
role by winning with a score of 256 points to 210.5 for MIT, 83.5 for Bates,
and 41 for WPI.

Since Coach Halston Taylor arrived at MIT in the 1982-83 season, the Engineers
have faced Williams once per year for each of those 16 years. Williams won
that first battle, but MIT took the next 8 in a row during a time when
Division III Titles were commonplace for the Track and Field Team. Since 1992,
Williams has been unbeatable. Though unbeatable, MIT has come close to taking
them down. In 1997, Tech visited Williams and came within 1 point of upsetting
the Ephs. In 1998, it came down to the relays, and once again Williams pulled
it out with an 8 point victory. Going into this 17th matchup, with both teams
having won 8 of the previous 16, Williams was favored to win by 20-30 points,
but that is not many points in a quad meet.

The teams were fairly evenly matched across the board with a few different
strengths and weaknesses. While both teams have great strength in the middle
distance and distance races, Williams also had good strength in the sprints
and Shot Put. MIT had relative strength in the vertical jumps. For MIT, one
unknown was going to be the readiness of Ravi Sastry '98, and Robbie Gray '02,
sprinters/jumpers who were both returning from hamstring injuries, but were no
where near full strength.

The meet began with the Long Jump. Mirach of Williams was seeded number 1,but
Sastry extended his second attempt to 22-0 to clinch the victory. It was a
good thing Mirach was unable to challenge that effort because Ravi strained
his hamstring in an attempt to get a better landing, and was finished in the
LJ. Todd Rosenfield '01, was consistently landing at 20', but fouled all
attempts. Kalpak Kothari '01, jumping a foot behind the board, managed a 6th
place with a 19-5 1/4 effort. Nevertheless, Williams took the event by a 17 to
12 score.

Finishing about the same time was the 35Lb. Weight Throw. Bates and WPI took
the top 3 spots, and Todd Chamoy '99, had a personal best of 48-5 1/4 to
garner a 4th for MIT. Jason Dailey '99, had a poor day, throwing 5 feet under
his best to finish a disappointing 7th. Fortunately for MIT, Williams did
poorly with a only a 5th place finish for 4 points to bring the cumulative
score to 21-19 in Williams favor.

On the track, the 1500 was getting underway. Williams was forced to double
their top distance runner, Paul Alsdorf, who is the number 1 ranked 5K runner
in the country for Division III. MIT's task was to have their great set of
milers sweep Alsdorf to possibly get the momentum in their favor. Alsdorf took
the lead right from the start in order to prevent MIT taking the event with a
strong kick off of a slow pace. The first quarter was a solid 63. The second
400 slowed to 2:09, but it was still Alsdorf leading followed very closely by
the MIT quartet of Sean Montgomery '01, Dan Feldman '02, Mike Parkins '99, and
Leif Seed '99. Then things heated up with Alsdorf picking up the pace with a
62 quarter. This shook all but Montgomery, however the other Tech runners ran
a 65 and were still unchallenged. In the final 300 meters, Montgomery tried to
pass Alsdorf many times, but each time Alsdorf picked up the pace. In the
final straight, Montgomery pulled even, and finally took the victory at the
line with a nationally qualifying time of 3:56.48 to 3:56.78 for Alsdorf.
Feldman finished 3rd with a personal best of 4:01.99, and Parkins a season
best of 4:02.30 for 4th. Unfortunately, Tech's top miler, Seed, did not finish
well, dropping to 7th in 4:05.05. MIT was now leading 41 to 36.

The High Hurdles, and the test for Sastry's hamstring were next. Sastry's best
time of the year was 8.01 while Rossier of Williams has run 8.02. Ravi came
through with a season best of 7.90 to 8.01 for Rossier. The plan was for
Jordan Alperin '02, and Peter Bluvas '01 to each beat a William's opponent
seeded just in front of them. Alperin did not run his best race,but garnered a
5th place with a 8.47 behind the three Williams hurdlers. Bluvas finished 6th
with a 8.57.

Back on the infield, the High Jump was finishing. Sastry, not missing any
attempts, was the only one to clear 6-0 on his first attempt. A WPI jumper was
the only other one to clear 6-0, and eventually cleared 6-2. Sastry's
hamstring was bothering him too much to make the effort at 6-2, and conceded
the victory. Although he jumped no where near his 6-2 season best, Alperin did
come through for 3rd place with a 5-10 effort. Roger Nielsen '01, jumped well
at 5-10 to secure 4th place, and Sam Sidiqi '99 tied for 7th to give MIT a
76.5 to 57 point edge.

The 400/600 sections were supposed to be in MIT's favor, but whenever you have
to split your long sprinters up, guess which race will be their most
competitive, and still have 4 potential scorers per race, it is an educated
guess at best. Even though Rosenfield did not get the break, he ran a very
aggressive 2nd lap, taking the race at the line in a huge personal best of
51.64. Neal Karchem '99, was not able to give close support, but did come
through with a 5th place. Kamal Mokeddem '01, and Ashley Clayborne '99, added
7th and 8th places to give MIT a 16-14 edge in the 400.

The 600 was probably the most disappointing for Tech. Williams put their top
two long sprinters in the race, but Tech's freshmen Yuval Mazor, and Alan
Raphael, were expected to give adequate chase. The outcome was very different
as Williams went 1,2,5, and 7. Yuval managed a personal best of 1:26.57 for
third, but Raphael only managed a 6th. Senior, Gus Blomquist, added an 8th
place for 1 more point, but the 22-10 Williams edge was going to be hard to
come back from. MIT still had a 102.5 to 93 lead, but Williams strength was
still to come.

The Pole Vault was finishing, and once again, MIT did not seize an easy
opportunity for points. Enduring a very bad ankle all season, Sam Thibault
'00, once again led the Engineers with a 13-0 vault for 2nd place. Matt Potts
'00, did not fare so well, only clearing 12-0 for 6th. Sidiqi again came
through for 8th, but freshman Dan Kwon no-heighted. The 11-5 difference was
not as much as hoped for.

The anticipated superiority of Williams sprinters was as bad as expected.
Sastry again held together with an amazing 3rd place finish, but weakened Gray
could only manage a 7th place. Williams cruised to take the event 25-8, and
take the lead 123 to 121.5.

The 800 was supposed to be a match between the undefeated Montgomery, with a
1:56 seed, going up against the fresh Hennessey, with a 1:57 seed, from
Williams. Hennessey took it out similar to the strategy employed by Alsdorf in
the 1500. Coming through splits of 28, 56, and 1:26, Montgomery took the lead
in the final straight to win in a very fast 1:55.65 to 1:56.52 for Hennessey.
Fighting off a cold, Parkins ran tough and finished 4th with a 2:02.40. Also
placing for MIT were John Biesiadecki '01, with a 2:03.99 for 5th, and an 8th
by Kenny Walker '01. Again, the 19-15 edge by MIT was less than expected.

The last strong event for the Engineers would be the 1000 meters. Again it was
an MIT runner doubling back expecting to take on a fresh Williams runner for
the victory. This time Leif Seed ran off of Li from Williams through a
comfortable pace of 31, 62, and 1:35. Seed, impatient, took the lead perhaps a
little too soon. He came through the half in 2:05. On the final backstretch,
Li took the lead and Seed could not respond. Li won in 2:34.96 to Seed's
2:35.93. Phil Loiselle '01, gave chase with a personal best of 2:36.20, and
Feldman ran very tough for a 2:37.17 personal best, good enough for 4th. Ray
Molnar '00, added a 2:41.39 personal best for 6th. MIT had reclaimed a 161.5
to 154.

The Shot Put, as predicted, went to Williams 21-1. As noted by an email from
an Alumnus, MIT shot putters cannot seem to break 40'. Bluvas, having to
relearn to throw the shot correctly, is almost back to where he was with
improper technique, and he garnered the lone MIT point with a 39-8 toss.
Williams was now ahead for good.

If the Shot Put was the stunning blow, the 200 was the knockout punch.
Williams domination in the 55 was magnified in the 200, as Sastry is not ready
to run the deuce, and Gray is not ready to run one fast. As a result, Williams
swept the first 4 places for a dominating 27-9 point difference. A 7 1/2 point
MIT lead had gone to a 30 1/2 deficit in just two events.

Not knowing these results by the time it was necessary to finalize the 3000
lineup, Coach Taylor substituted a game Feldman for Liyan Guo in hopes of
scoring every point possible. Alsdorf, having already run an 8:25 this year,
doubled back along with a strong group of distance runners from Williams. For
MIT, a fresh Mark Strauss '01, and Chris McGuire '00, and Ed Keehr '01, would
join Feldman in what everyone still thought of as a chance for a team victory.
With 800 meters to go Alsdorf and McCue from Williams pulled away from Strauss
and McGuire to eventually go 1-3 in 8:41 and 8:44. Strauss finished 4th in a
personal best of 8:45.27, and McGuire ran 8:46.40 in a personal best for 6th.
Feldman had a very gutsy performance to finish 8th in 8:58.

The 1600 Relay was one of the best races of the day, even though the outcome
of the meet was already decided. Mazor led off with a strong 52.4 leg, and
despite a poor handoff to Rosenfield, Tech had a lead after Todd's 51.4
effort. Karchem ran strong, but his 52.4 was not enough to hold Williams at
bay. Montgomery made up 15 of the 20 meters on Williams with his 50.2 anchor,
but it was not enough. Both teams ran season bests of 3:25.7 and 3:26.2
respectively.

The Distance Medley Relay also went to Williams as MIT backed off. This left
the Triple Jump to complete the day's events. On the 2nd round of the finals,
Kothari nailed an indoor best of 43-9 1/2 to take the lead over Mirach of
Williams. However, on his last attempt, Mirach pulled it out with a leap of
43-11 1/4 to epitomize Williams efforts in the meet. Gray added a third place
along with a 5th from Thibault to give MIT 17 points in the event.

This was a hard fought battle between MIT and Williams. The MIT seniors missed
their last opportunity to take Williams down in a regular season meet, but
perhaps the freshmen learned what it will take to get the job done in the
future.

Next week, MIT completes the Quad Cup regular season with an opportunity to
finish 11-1 against Springfield, Bowdoin, and Westfield State at home.



RETURN TO INDOOR




**TECH FINISHES 11-1**

**Personal Bests Lead The Way in Landslide Victory**



February 6, 1999

Fortunately for the MIT Men's Track and Field Team, the final meet of the Quad
Cup Series versus Springfield College, who puts more emphasis on an Outdoor
Track program, and Bowdoin and Westfield State, who simply do not have enough
bodies in all of the events to make a serious challenge, was not supposed to
be a difficult one. This is fortunate because middle distance star, Sean
Montgomery, broke his big toe earlier in the week while running down some
stairs. The Engineers were also holding out #1 Pole Vaulter, Sam Thibault, in
hopes that his ankle might heel. Yet, the team rallied behind some tremendous
individual performances to win easily with 266 points to Springfield's 131,
Bowdoin's 101, and Westfield's 92.

The star of the meet, at least in terms of improvement, had to be freshman
Robbie Gray. Robbie set personal bests in the dash with a 6.72 for the win, a
20-2 long jump for 4th, and a 41-0 1/2 in the triple jump for a 4th. Robbie
will be concentrating on the 55 Dash for the remainder of the season.

The biggest improvement has to go to Sam Sidiqi '99. Sam went from a season
best of 11-6 in the Pole Vault to a leap of 13-3. Sam's previous all-time best
had only been 12-6. This vault qualified Sam for the New England Division III
Championships.

In the High Hurdles, three of the four MIT hurdlers had personal bests, and
the fourth won the race. In addition to Ravi Sastry '98, winning the race,
Jordon Alperin '02 ran an 8.30 to place 3rd and qualify for the NE Div. III
Championship, Peter Bluvas '01, ran 8.37 to knock .1 seconds off of his best,
and Roger Nielsen '01, ran 8.70 to better his time by .3 seconds. Roger also
jumped to an Indoor best of 6-0 in the High Jump to claim 3rd place.

Alex Rodriguez '00, had two personal bests, one in the 55 where he ran 7.05,
and one in the 200 Meters where he ran 24.37.

The 600 Meter race also had two personal bests, one from senior Neal Karchem,
and one from freshman Damian Plummer. Neal is rounding into Championship form
as he ran 1:25.94, and Damian put himself back into relay consideration with a
1:28.40.

The 800 had all four MIT competitors run PRs. Leif Seed '99, charged to the
lead with just over 200 meters to go, and won in 1:58.83 to qualify for the
Div. III Championship. Distance star, Dan Feldman '02, ran his first half of
the season and produced a 2:02.81. Both Leif and Dan had run the mile earlier,
with Dan winning in 4:27, and Leif getting 3rd behind Mark Strauss of MIT in
4:32. Also setting personal bests were Alan Raphael '02, with a 2:02.96, and
Ray Molnar '00, with a 2:05.05.

In the 1000 Meter race, Phil Loiselle '01, continued his improvement with a
2:35.96 personal best to win the race. Matt Yarosz '02, lended a hand with a
4th place finish of 2:45.67 for another personal best.

In the distance events, Albert Hung '01, ran a huge best in the mile with a
4:45.50 for 7th place. Ed Keehr '01, continued to surprise his opponents with
another personal best of 15:39.37 in the 5000 for 4th place.

Todd Chamoy '99, set a personal best in the Weight Throw for the 2nd week in a
row with a 49-5 3/4 effort, good enough for 2nd place in the meet.

The Engineers continue to get ready for the New England Division III
Championships at Wesleyan College on February 19th and 20th with the last non-
championship meet of the season, the Quad Cup Invitational at home vs. Coast
Guard, Middlebury, Plattsburgh State, Springfield, Tufts, Williams, and WPI.



RETURN TO INDOOR


