


  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**TECH TRACK KICKS THE SEASON OFF WITH WIN OVER ALUMNI**

January 12, 2013

Forty six alums turned out to see what they could do against their younger
counterparts on Saturday for the annual Alumni/ae Indoor Track & Field meet.
Ranging in graduating class from as recent as last year to as far back as 1989
for those competing and back to 1974 for those cheering their fellow "Has-
Beens" along.

In the end the numbers for the varsity teams proved too much for the out-
manned alums. The women won their competition 87.5-34.5, while the men came
out on top 87-35. On the women's side, Karin Fisher '11 and Portia Jones '12
were both double winners for the alumnae and those turned out to be the team's
only victories. Fisher took the Pole Vault in 11-11 3/4 and the Triple Jump in
a personal best of 34-03, while Jones claimed victories in the 60HH in 9.32
and in the 200 with a time of 27.37. Both ladies also scored in the High Jump
with Jones earning second at 5-1 and Fisher tying for third at 4-11. In
addition, Fisher placed second in the 60 Meter Dash in 8.33. The remaining 8
points were scored by Jamie Priest (Simmons) '12, earning second in the 200
and 400, Hazel Briner '11 placing third in the Pole Vault, and Diana Zhu '12
earning third in the 60HH.

The Varsity women had a pretty solid day on the track and in the field. Top
point scorer was Veronica Szklarzewski '15, who won the Long Jump in 15-08 3/4
and the 60 Meter Dash in 8.26. She also placed third in the Triple Jump and
was a member of the winning 4x200 Relay team. The other double winner for the
Varsity was freshman Isabella Stuopis '16, who won both the 20 lb. Weight
Throw (41-08 1/2) and the Shot Put (39-03 1/4), setting a new freshman record
in the latter. The most impressive effort by the Varsity was the start to
finish victory by Alexandra Taylor '14 in the 800 Meter Run. Taylor went out
in 68 second for the first quarter and finished in an indoor PR of 2:17.92, a
very impressive time on the tight turns of MIT's Shobrys and Aronson track.
Other victories were earned by Preethi Vaidyanathan '15 in the High Jump at
5-1, Brooke Johnson '13 in the Mile Run in 5:10.19, Maddie Bairey '15 in the
400 in 63.75, Elaine McVay '15 with an 18:09.43 in the 5K, and the quartet of
Szklarzewski, Bairey, Taylor and Isabel Crystal '16 in the 4x200 Relay.

The dominant force for the Alumni in the men's meet was CK Umachi '12. Umachi
won the Weight Throw at 56-10, the Shot Put at 42-01 1/4 and placed third in
the High Jump at 6-0 3/4. Matt Falk '12, a grad student with eligibility for
the outdoor season, but none remaining for indoor season, claimed the victory
in the High Jump at 6-2 3/4, an event the Alums swept with Craig Mielcarz '03
placing second. Nate Ball '05 took first place honors in the Pole Vault at
13-11 1/4. Similar to the women, those four victories were it for the old guys
as they failed to claim any points in the running events. The additional 11
points were scored by Thad Wozniak '06, who earned a second place in the Long
Jump with a 20-10 3/4 leap, a second place by Mitch Kelley '11 in the Shot Put
at 38-11, a second and third in the Pole Vault by Omari Stephens '08, and Nate
Peterson '12 to give the Alums the sweep in that event, both clearing 13-11
1/4, and a third by Scott Deering '89 in the Weight Throw at 36-4 3/4. The
Alumni outscored the Varsity in the field events by a score of 35 to 19.

The story for the Men's Varsity was the freshmen, who accounted for 36 of the
87 points and winning four events, the horizontal jumps and the long sprints,
outshining the very capable upper classmen in those events. States Lee '16 led
the way with victories in the 200 and 400 events as well as anchoring the
winning 4x200 Relay. Lee's times were 23.06 in the 200 and 51.68 in the 400.
Arinze Okeke '16 took honors in the Long Jump at 21' and Carrington Motley '16
set a personal best in the Triple Jump to claim first with a jump of 44-5 1/4.
Michael Kaba '16 was also solid for the freshmen, placing second in both the
60 and 60HH with times of 7.19 and 8.63 respectively. The other victories by
the Varsity were well spread out among the team. Brian Djaja '13 ran a
personal best in the 60HH, winning in 8.54. Michael DuPlessis '14 won the 60
in 7.17. Justin Bullock '14 led the 800 sweep with a 1:58.35 effort. Kyle
Hannon '13 took the Mile in 4:22.23 and Benji Xie '15 earned the 5K victory in
15:17.77. The additional members of the winning 4x200 Relay were Tyler Singer-
Clark '14, Josh Duncavage '13 and Duplessis.

Others participating were Gihan Amarasiriwardena '11 (5K), Obinna Anyanwu '09
(Triple Jump), Hemu Arumugam '10 (Mile), Patrick Barragan '08 (Pole Vault),
David Blau '06 (60, 200), Jack Bourbonnais '09 (5K), Hazel Briner '11 (Pole
Vault, Long Jump, Shot Put, Weight Throw), Logan Daum '11 (400), Caroline
Figgatt '11 (Pole Vault), Martha Gross '12 (200, 400), Emily Hwang '09 (Pole
Vault), Adeline Kuo '02 (60), Dan Kwon '02 (Pole Vault), Maggie Lloyd '12
(5K), Ben Mattocks '12 (Mile), Stephen Morton '10 (Long Jump), Richard Prevost
'11 (Mile, 800), Crystal Ray (Shot Put), Ulzie Rea '07 (200, 400), Joe Roy-
Mayhew '08 (5K), Stephen Serene '12 (Mile), Becky Stavely (Pole Vault),
Anthony Teixeira '08 (Long Jump, Triple Jump), Zach Traina '05 (60, 200), Cat
Tweedie '04 (Long Jump, High Jump), Chris Wong '08 (5K), Diana Zhu '12 (60HH,
High Jump, Long Jump, Triple Jump) and Julia Zimmerman '09 (Weight Throw,
Triple Jump, High Jump). Also in attendance, but not competing were Kirsten
Aarsvold '11, Javit Drake '94, Tom Hansen '74, Kimathi Hardy '94, Dave Reshef
'08, and Don Shobrys '75.

This was an excellent competitive start for the Engineers. Next week, MIT
travels to Harvard for a Challenge Meet where MIT and Williams will be scored
together vs. Army and Northeastern vs. Harvard and Brown. There will be no
400, 800 or 5K, but there will be a 500, 1000 and 3K. Only four entries per
event per school are allowed so it will be an opportunity for some of the Tech
athletes to have a weekend off from competing.

RETURN TO INDOOR  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Johnson, Quinn Set Varsity Records--Numerous Other Qualifying Marks Achieved
at Tufts Meet

February 11, 2013

After three days of cancelled meets due to the historic snow storm on the East
coast, MIT finally was able to get some of their athletes into a competition.
Those few athletes competing took advantage of the opportunity, setting
numerous personal and season bests, as well as two MIT records in the process,
the women's 1000 and the women's Mile Run.

Friday and Saturday's meet at Boston University, the Valentine's Invitational,
a meet with generally over 3,000 entries, was cancelled due to the massive
snow storm (24-30" in the Boston area) that hit the city on Friday and lasted
for over 24 hours. Likewise, MIT's Invitational, as well as Tuft's Cupid
Challenge were postponed on both Saturday and Sunday as the two colleges
continued to clear the snow away. With a lack of available officials and a
severe reduction of interested teams, MIT cancelled their meet and sent their
athletes to the Tufts meet. Only those MIT athletes who either needed to still
qualify for the New England Division III Championship (NED3) or those who
needed to improve their seed were going to compete.

While MIT had qualified four women and four men in the Triple Jump for the
NED3 Championship, four women and four men, only one long jumper had
qualified. Only competing in the Long Jump, both Jackie Konopka '14 and
Carrington Motley '16 both met the qualifying mark. In the process, Motley won
the event at 21-1 1/4.

Konopka's goal was not to qualify for the Long Jump, but rather to get five
good marks in the Pentathlon events with hopes to qualify in the Pentathlon,
an event in which she placed sixth in last year's meet. Konopka went on to
have a phenomenal evening, totaling a big personal record while accumulating
3213 points. Her Long Jump was a personal best of 16-5, High Jump a season
best 4-11 3/4, the Shot Put a season best 33-1, the 60HH a fine 9.59 and the
800 a best of 2:30.70.

Continuing in the field events, Marissa Engle '15, just off the injured list,
took advantage of her one chance to qualify, clearing 10' to get the job done.
Sherry Wan '16 cleared a personal best 10-6 and just missed 11-0.

On the track, the biggest highlights were supplied by senior star Brooke
Johnson '13 and freshman sensation Sarah Quinn '16. Johnson ran the 1000 for
the first time this year with the goal to run a time around 3:00 to qualify
for the fast section of next week's 1000. The plan was to run 36 second 200's
the entire way, but the leader took the pace out in 34 so Johnson just tucked
onto her shoulder and let her do the work. However, the pace soon started to
slow, hitting the 400 at 70. Johnson took the lead and did not relent, running
the next 400 in 70 as well and then closing in 36 for a 2:56.27.

Quinn, fresh off of last week's MIT and freshman record of 9:56.01 in the 3K,
was racing the mile for the first time this season. With a plan to go out in
74 and hold that pace, it worked well when the top seed went out in 73. The
pace slowed to 2:28 for the 800, making Quinn anxious but ready to spring.
With 600 to go, Quinn took off, running a 72 third quarter and closing with a
74 to win in 4:54.32, a new MIT and freshman record. Nicole Zeinstra '16, also
racing the Mile for the first time this year, placed fourth in an excellent
5:07.42.

Jackie Brew '14, qualified in the 200 with a 26.88, as did Kayla Harris '15 in
the 400 with a 62.73. Improving her qualifying time in the 800, Cindy Huang
'15 ran 2:18.90

For the men, Josh Duncavage '13 finally started showing his wheels. Needing a
qualifying time in the 200, Duncavage unfortunately was given lane 2. This did
not affect the confident sprinter who blasted a 22.95 to easily run a season
best and qualify for next weekend's championship.

Kyle Hannon '13 needed a qualifying time in the 1000 as an earlier illness
prevented him from running it in previous meets. He ran well, although he did
not race to win as he should have, qualifying easily in 2:31.45.

Logan Trimble '13 ran the Mile to give MIT some additional options in next
weekend's meet, either the open mile or a leg in the Distance Medley Relay.
Trimble tightened up in the latter stages of the race but ran a pretty strong
4:22.73.

MIT is not favored to win either the men's or women's championship next week,
but if they perform well and want it more than their opponents they could be
in position to pull out the team victory.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**MIXED RESULTS FOR TECH TRACK AGAINST DIVISION I COMPETITION**

January 19, 2013

MIT Track & Field made the trip up the river to compete in the Harvard
Challenge at Harvard University this Saturday. The unique concept pitted
traditional Division III powerhouses MIT and Williams College against Patriot
League members, Army and Northeastern and Ivy League teams, Harvard and Brown.
With only six scoring places and a 7-5-4-3-2-1 scoring format, points were
going to be difficult to come by, particularly for the Division III teams. In
both meets, the Division III pair finished third. Individually, MIT claimed
fifth in the men's meet, just three point behind Brown and very competitive
throughout the meet. On the women's side, the injuries and lack of
competitiveness were just too much to overcome as Tech finished last, although
very competitive with all other teams except Harvard, who had way too much
firepower and depth.

MIT entered the meet after the second week of practice with far too many
injuries on the women's side left over from cross country and pre-season
workouts, and a less than competitive attitude from many performers. While the
majority of the male and female Engineers gave their all, far too many were
held back by their mental approach to the competition as well as doubts about
their own ability and readiness, particularly the runners.

In the men's meet, there were a few highlights. Carrington Motley '16, set a
freshman record in the Triple Jump with a third place 46-1 1/4 performance.
Supporting Motley, his teammates took fourth, fifth and sixth places, gaining
10 of MIT's 43 points. Arinze Okeke '16 placed second at 43-3, Jackson Wirekoh
'13 earned fifth with 43-1 3/4 and Angel Echevarria '16 took the final point
also jumping 43-1 3/4.

The other big event for the Engineers was the Mile Run. In a strategic,
pedestrian paced race, Kyle Hannon '13 dropped a 58 final quarter to take
second place at 4:13.42. Justin Bullock '14, after taking the lead with 600 to
go, was not able to close as hard, finishing with a 62 final 440, good for
third place in 4:15.09.

In the Pole Vault, Yida Gao '13 and Cyrus Vafadari '13 jumped season personal
bests of 14-3 1/4 and 14-1 1/4 from a short approach to place third and fourth
respectively.

In the 3K, Benji Xie '15 ran a superb race, fighting with the leaders the
entire way, but unable to hang in the final 400. Nevertheless, Xie placed
fifth with a 8:38.21 personal best. Teammate Matt Jordan '15 surprised
everyone, not only with the fact that he stayed near the front, but also that
he closed the final 220 in 31 seconds to place sixth in 8:38.61.

MIT was competitive in both relay events, the 4x440 and the Distance Medley
Relay, placing third in both. Tech ran two 4x440 relay teams as they try to
figure out who the best four legs will be come championship time. Freshman,
States Lee led off for the A team, opening with a strong 50.2 to give MIT the
lead at the handoff. Tyler Singer-Clark '14, not yet at championship form,
kept MIT in it with a 50.3 effort. Mac Gager '14, lacking the all-out sprint
speed, ran an excellent second lap to put MIT in contention for the lead, but
anchor leg, Pat Marx '13 took off too soon, not able to maintain the speed of
the baton through the zone. Marx ran a strong 50.0 leg but not the 47-48 that
will be expected from the star 800 runner in a few weeks. The 3:20.92
performance was pretty good for the All American 4x400 unit so early in the
season, but far from late season expectations. In the B relay entry Nick
Diamantoni '15 ran a 50.7 leg and Derek Barnes '16 anchored with a 50.4.

The DMR was led off by Chadd Kiggins '15. Kiggins did not put MIT in
contention as he was only able to produce a 3:11.7 1320 leg. Sam Parker '15 in
his first meet after spending much of the fall injured, ran an excellent 49.6
440 leg. Jared Forman '13, a last minute replacement for the 880 leg,
responded favorably with a 2:00.0 effort. Hannon doubled back, but never
really engaged in the race after the first 440 in 63, instead slowing to
finish in 4:25.6 for an overall time of 10:26.37.

Other point scorers for Tech were John Thomas '15 in the High Jump, clearing
6-0 1/2, Marx placing fifth in the 500 in 1:05.09, Lee in the 200, taking
sixth place in a personal indoor best of 22.73 and a sixth place by junior
Michael DuPlessis in the 60 meter dash, running it in 7.14 seconds in the
trials and 7.15 in the finals.

In the women's meet, the only dominant event for the Engineers was strangely
enough, one of the areas where they have the most injuries. Elaine McVay '15
and Allison Hallock '16 went with the leaders right from the gun in the 3K.
The duo came through the mile in 5:21 and looked very strong. They both
continued 81-82 second quarter pace to the end, just not having the kick of
the eventual winner. McVay placed second in 10:06.32 and Hallock nearly earned
a freshman record with her 10:07.70 for third place.

The Distance Medley Relay team earned the other second place for MIT.
Alexandra Taylor '14, who earlier ran her debut Mile run in 5:04.24 to take
third place honors, ran a very strong 3:42.3 three quarter mile leg. Isabel
Crystal '16 turned an excellent and competitive 62.1 440 before executing a
near perfect handoff to Cindy Huang '15. Huang did not perform near her best,
running a slow 2:27.5, putting MIT in limbo, no where close to first or third.
Louise van den Heuvel '15, who had earlier earned a sixth place in the 1000
with a 3:01.50, was also far off her best, running 5:22.6 to give MIT a
cumulative 12:34.51.

Isabel Stuopis '16 set a freshman record in the Shot Put for the second week
in succession, but this time added the varsity record to her list of
accomplishments, throwing 42-9 3/4 to earn fourth place in the stellar field.

Lauren Kuntz '13 tied for fifth place in the Pole Vault, clearing 11-2,
leading all MIT vaulters, all of whom were over 10-2 or better.

The final point for MIT was earned by Preethi Vaidyanathan '15 in the High
Jump. She cleared a season best 5-2 1/4.

Next week, MIT will take their runners who race the 200 and up to Boston
University's banked track in the Terrier Classic where the women will compete
on Friday and the men on Saturday. The field event athletes along with some
sprinters and hurdlers will compete at MIT's invitational on Saturday.

Based on today's results, the Engineers have some work to do, mentally and
physically, to get ready for the Championships, which begin in four weeks.

RETURN TO INDOOR  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Konopka Improves Pentathlon Mark by Over 200 Points to Lead MIT Qualifiers to
NCAA Division III

March 2, 2013

The final weekend to qualify for the NCAA Division III Championship on March
8-9, began with five MIT student-athletes making the trip to New York City to
compete in the ECAC Division III Championship at the New Balance Armory.

Jackie Konopka '14, seeded 16th in NCAA Division III Pentathlon field going
into the meet, knew she needed to improve significantly to guarantee making
the 15 member national field. She wasted no time in getting a strong start,
running a personal best of 9.21 in the 60HH. In the second event, Konopka
proceeded to add another PR, this time a 5-2 1/4 High Jump performance. In the
Shot Put, she threw another personal best, 34-8 1/2. In the Long Jump she
added a 1/4" to her personal best, jumping 16-5 1/4. In the final event, the
800, Konopka surpassed even her coaches' expectations as she ran a 2:25.90.
Her score, a new MIT record of 3453, the top score in the country for Division
III. However, the penalty incurred by the banked track 800 reduced her NCAA
qualifying score to 3432, three points behind the country's leader.

Her teammates were not able to make improvements, but had one more chance at
Tufts University's Last Chance Qualifier, which was held the next day.

Cimmy Virdi '16 took advantage of the second opportunity, clearing a season
best 12' to move into a four way tie for 14th on the NCAA list. However, the
NCAA only takes 15 women per event, 13 men and 10 teams per relay event. Ties
are broken and with Virdi's second best vault only being 11-5 3/4, she will
only make the NCAA field if two of the qualifiers ranked ahead of her do not
enter the event.

The biggest event for MIT was the Men's Distance Medley Relay. Entering the
competition they were sitting in 10th, but knew that place would not stand, so
they went for an improvement, this time on a flat track. The anchor leg, Kyle
Hannon '13, still affected by his walking pneumonia, realized he was not going
to be able to get the job done and made the mature decision to give up his
position to Justin Bullock '14. Logan Trimble '13 led things off in the
stacked field, running 3:04.4 for the 1200. States Lee '16 made up a lot of
ground with his 50.1 to move MIT into fourth place. Pat Marx '13 ran a superb
800 leg, closing up the rest of the ground on the leaders with his 1:52.3.
Bullock went out too fast, running 29 for the first 200 and 60.9 for the 400.
In the end this cost him dearly, but he still managed to hold onto a 4:13.2 to
give MIT a 10:00.05, moving them up to number seven on the NCAA list and a
lock to go to Nationals.

The women's 5000 was a much anticipated event as MIT was entering three very
capable runners, all hoping to either break 17:00 or run very close to it.
However, Brooke Johnson '13 was having plantar fasciitis issues and did not
race. Elaine McVay '15, needed to improve on her 17:19 in order to make the
Nationals field, but she had been sick all week. Although she was game her
strength was not what it usually is. Sarah Quinn '16, attempting her first 5K
had extremely tight calves but thought they would be okay for the race. Quinn
set out to hammer 80 second 400's and did so very well through 2800 meters,
coming through in 9:23. Her 3200 was 10:46 as her calves were not responding.
She faded her final mile, running 5:41 even though she was not particularly
tired. Quinn's final time was 17:09.15, a freshman record for MIT, putting her
at number nine on the NCAA list.

Alexandra Taylor '14 won the 800 in 2:15.69 while Cindy Huang '15 ran a season
best 2:17.80.

Marx won the 600 in 1:22.23, his second fastest time ever, less than two hours
after the DMR.

States Lee, after running his DMR leg, came back to win the 400 in 50.32.

Many others came close to qualifying for the NCAA Division III Championship
next weekend, but did not quite make it. Tech should be represented by the
following individuals at Nationals. The women's DMR (Brooke Johnson, Cindy
Huang, Alexandra Taylor, Sarah Quinn), the men's DMR (Logan Trimble, States
Lee, Pat Marx, Justin Bullock), the men's 4x400 (States Lee, Tyler Singer-
Clark, Derek Barnes, Pat Marx), Lauren Kuntz in the Pole Vault, possibly along
with Cimmy Virdi, Quinn in the 5K and Jackie Konopka in the Pentathlon.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Kuntz is National Runner-up in Pole Vault, MIT Claims 10 All America Honors

March 8-9 2013

MIT qualified and brought 13 athletes to the NCAA Division III Indoor Track &
Field Championship, hosted by North Central College in Naperville, Illinois.
At the coaches' and athletes' banquet the night before the meet, Sarah Quinn
'16 received the New England Region Female Runner of the Year for her
remarkable season of three national qualifying performances (DMR, Mile, 5K),
New England title in the 3K and three MIT varsity records (DMR, Mile, 3K) and
three freshman records (Mile, 3K, 5K).

Tech wasted no time in getting on the scoreboard. Lauren Kuntz '13, a two-time
All America winner in the Pole Vault, surpassed her fourth place seed, earning
second place with a new personal best of 12-11 1/2. At 12-3, nine vaulters had
cleared with Kuntz in eighth place due to two total misses. At 12-7 1/2 only
six vaulters cleared with Kuntz in fifth. At 12-11 1/2 Kuntz was the only
athlete to clear on the first attempt. One other vaulter cleared on the second
attempt with the top seed passing the height. Neither vaulter cleared 13-1,
but strangely the top seed again passed. Kuntz had the victory if Michelle
Favre of Ramapo College did not clear the next height. After one miss Favre
did indeed clear the height to win the competition. Kuntz's second place was
extraordinary and eight big points for the Engineers.

In the Pentathlon, which began at 10:15 a.m., Jackie Konopka '14, a rookie at
this competition, started off with a solid 9.32 in the 60HH to stand in fifth
place. In the High Jump portion of the event, Konopka jumped a PR of 5-3 to
move up in points, but remain in fifth place. In the Shot Put, Konopka threw
close to 34' to move up into fourth place, just out of third place. Her Long
Jump of 16-1 1/2, while not her best, kept her close, but nevertheless falling
back to seventh place. In the final event, the 800, she ran a very smart race
with the exception of moving a little too hard after 300 meters. She paid for
this, tying up badly in the final 150, but still maintained a flat track PR of
2:27 to move up to sixth place.

Nicole Zeinstra '16 ran the Mile Run trials, knowing she had to place either
among the top three in her heat or one of the top four overall times after
taking the top three out of each heat. The pace was perfect for Zeinstra,
splitting 74 for the first quarter. The pace slowed so she took the lead as
instructed, hitting the halfway mark at 2:30. She tried to pull away in the
third quarter, hitting the three quarter mark in 3:45, but that did little to
shake the pack. In the final quarter the main pack pulled around her one by
one, but she held on to run 5:01.89, a flat track personal best. Her overall
place was 12th of the 15 competitors, the same as her seed entering the event.
A job well done by the freshman.

The final events of day one were the Distance Medley Relays, which MIT had
entries for the men and women. Brooke Johnson '13 led off for the Engineers
with the 1200 leg. She ran an excellent leg, pushing the pace once it slowed.
In the final lap she lost the lead but kept MIT in third place with a 3:32
split, about 10 meters off the lead. Cindy Huang '15 was in no-man's land but
valiantly tried to close the gap. Her 28.5 200 was a little ambitious and it
hurt her in the end as she finished about 25 meters out of first, but still in
third place with a 60.5. Alexandra Taylor '14 took over the baton honors and
quickly moved to close the gap with a 31.3 first 200. Middlebury went around
in the second 200, which helped pull Taylor along to a 63.4 400. She
maintained a good pace through a 1:36.9 600, but then tightened up and lost
another place despite an excellent flat track PR of 2:13.3. Sarah Quinn '16
grabbed the baton and did what anchors are supposed to do, close the gap. The
problem was that Quinn closed it a bit too quickly. In this case the first 200
was 33 as she made up 20 meters on third and fourth in the first 100 meters.
She settled into pace after that but the damage was done. Her 400 was 69.8,
moving her into third place. Now running the 72-73 400 pace she was supposed
to do, Quinn hit the 800 in 2:22.4 and moved up to the leaders. During the
third quarter she took the lead, but it was short lived. At the 1200 mark her
split was 3:35.8 but she then paid for her first 200 sin. Her final 400 of 78
was as painful to watch as it was for Quinn to run. Her 4:53.8 was a very
competitive, gutsy effort, but the way she ran it ended with the team in fifth
place. The 11:40.38 was a superb overall performance for the team.

The men took to the track immediately afterwards. Logan Trimble '13 led things
off with the 1200 leg. Although all MIT runners know not to get boxed in on
the rail, that is exactly where Trimble located himself after he lost balance
at the start, getting stuck in the back of the pack. After the first 400 of
60.8 the pace slowed. Trimble did not go wide to take the lead, but rather
seemed determined to stay on the rail and try to move up on the inside. This
netted a 2:06.6 800, but at least no one in the race was running fast. The
final 400 was quick for the leaders, but Trimble could not get out as well as
the others, ending up at 3:07.1 in fifth place. States Lee '16 ran the 400
leg, wasting no time in moving around runners with a 22.9 first 200. Lee
passed another runner and closed the gap with his 49.5 leg, handing off in
third place. Pat Marx '13, the 800 leg, did exactly what he was told not to
do, he settled in the pack of the lead group rather than run his own race,
burying the competition. By settling in the back, the pace slowed to a 56.4
first 400. The pace continued to slow, and when the leaders took off, Marx
could not get the momentum back, finishing in 1:55.2 in fourth place. Justin
Bullock '14 anchored the relay and did an excellent job. He took his time
closing the gap, running splits of 61.9, 2:05.3 and 3:09.2 to put himself in
the back of the lead group in fourth place. As the pace picked up, Bullock
could not go with them and lost a couple places even though he closed in 62.0.
The final time of 10:03.97 was pretty good and gave MIT sixth place, but could
have been much faster if the Engineers had run what they were capable of.

Going into day two, the women were in second place with 15 points, but with
only the single entry of Sarah Quinn in the 5K, and given the status of her
beat up calves, it was unlikely they would maintain their position. The men
had three points, but also had one entry, the fifth seed in the 4x400 Relay.

In the 5K, due to the status of Quinn's calves, it was decided she would not
charge to the lead, but stay on eighth place until one mile remained. If she
felt she had anything left at that point she would race for as high a place as
possible. The initial pace was pedestrian at best for the main pack, 86
seconds for the first quarter and did not change for the 1600 as the split was
5:40. Quinn was impatient but disciplined enough to stay in the pack and not
move up. The second 1600 was a 5:32. At that point the front of the main pack
moved to hunt down the two front runners. Quinn tried to go, running 81 and 79
for the next two quarters, but then the calves locked up. From that point on
it was survival as she finished in 17:28.22.

The 4x400 was seeded fifth, thus putting them in the fast section of the two
section final. Drawing lane two meant leadoff runner, States Lee would have to
work hard to get the break. Lee did just that, getting the break with a 22.8
first 200. He held on to the lead, running an amazing 49.6 leadoff leg. Tyler
Singer-Clark '14 took the baton was passed on the exchange and passed the
runner on the backstretch, which took a 22.6 first 200, exhausting him. The
second lap was ugly as he was passed by all four teams in the final stretch to
finish in 50.3. Derek Barnes '16, passed one runner on the backstretch and ran
a strong leg of 49.5, but again, he was passed on the handoff, giving Pat Marx
the baton in fifth. Marx tried to move on the leaders but was unable to get
around them. He ran a 49.3 to give MIT a 3:18.70 overall time in 10th place.

The women's team finished in a tie for 13th place with 15 points while the men
tied for 45th position with three points.

RETURN TO INDOOR  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Men Perform Brilliantly-Overcome Deficit-Win New England Championship

February 16, 2013

Going into the New England Division III Championship, MIT was seeded third, 24
points behind Tufts University and two points behind host Bates, the defending
champions. MIT had won in 2010 and 2011, but dropped the ball in 2012. The
Engineers were determined to bring the fight to Tufts and Bates and see if the
two teams could stand up to the pressure. In the end, MIT prevailed, clinching
the meet in the next to last event and defeating runner up Bates 118.5 to 94.
Tufts was third with 92 points.

The meet got off to a predictably difficult start for MIT. In the Heptathlon,
Jordan Mizerak '14 competed very well and earned his seed place of eighth with
4182 points to get MIT on the board. However, Bates started off with 14 points
and Tufts 13. The first final on Saturday to be completed was the Weight Throw
and this added to MIT's woes. With no thrower in the competition the Engineers
could only watch and wait for the track events to start. Bates dominated with
15 more points, while Tufts gathered five. With Bates up 29-1 things were not
looking positive.

MIT had two individuals in the Long Jump but neither were seeded to score.
Someone must have forgotten to give that message to Carrington Motley '16 and
Arinze Okeke '16. The two freshmen both jumped a personal best 21-6 to claim
sixth and seventh respectively for five points. Tufts won the event to add 10
to their total, giving them 28.

The first final on the track was the Mile Run. MIT was only seeded for six
points, but hoped for more. In perhaps the most disappointing competition of
the meet both MIT runners failed to score. Kyle Hannon '13, one of the tri-
captains continued his mental problems with competing in individual events,
falling off the moderate pace after the 400. Justin Bullock '14, another tri-
captain, suffering from some illness that has not been adequately diagnosed,
had nothing, also falling off the pace just past the 400 mark. Fortunately
neither Bates nor Tufts took full advantage of the opportunity while both had
very strong entries. Tufts claimed fourth and Bates eighth.

In the 60HH, Brian Djaja '13 failed to make the finals for MIT, so once again
MIT had to watch while Bates scored nine more points, claiming fifth, sixth
and seventh places in the event. MIT was now looking up at a 39-6 deficit.

MIT had little room to improve on the seeding going into the 400 as they were
expected to score 19. However, that is just what they did. Freshmen States Lee
and Michael Kaba took first and second respectively with times of 50.22 and
50.33, while Tyler Singer-Clark '14 claimed fourth, another freshman, Derek
Barnes placed seventh and Nick Diamantoni '15 tied for eighth. In both
sections, MIT runners took the break and would not let anyone around them
until the final stretch. The 25.5 points immediately put Tech back in the meet
and got the team going in the right direction.

In the next event, the 600, Tech was seeded to gain eight points with Sam
Parker '15 seeded second. Parker made two harmful strategic errors (getting
out too far in the back of the lead pack and making a passing move too late on
the straight) and had to struggle for a sixth place in a very fast personal
best 1:22.25. Mac Gager '14 came through with an eighth place in 1:23.37 out
of a slower section.

Bates was not done yet. In the Shot Put, they came up with a huge 17 points
while Tufts claimed four. MIT just could not seem to catch up. Similar to last
year's outdoor championship, Michael DuPlessis '14 came through huge. In the
2012 outdoor championship, DuPlessis, not seeded to score, came through with a
third place. He must like the script because he did the same thing in the 60
Meter Dash. DuPlessis ran a season best 7.11 to make the finals and then ran a
PR 7.03 for third place and an unexpected six points.

Seeded for three points in the Pole Vault, MIT was hoping the event would be
the magic it had always been for Engineers. As it was, Tufts was seeded for 12
and Bates four points. True to form, MIT prevailed with Cyrus Vafadari '13
pulling out an amazing successful vault on his third attempt at 15-8 1/4 to
win the event. Yida Gao '13 helped with a seventh place to give MIT 12 points
while Tufts only managed six and Bates three.

While Tufts seemed to be fading, Bates kept coming through when MIT would
close the gap. In the 800, Pat Marx '13 ran a strong race but only placed
third in 1:54.84. Bates scored 15 to keep the lead.

The 1000 was a nice turning point for MIT. Chadd Kiggins '15, injured for the
past two weeks and unable to practice until this past Wednesday, ran a great
race, refusing to lose, coming back in the final straight to take the victory
in 2:31.92. Hannon, regained a bit of his competitiveness to place sixth and
get MIT three points. Bates did not score as their athlete seeded second was
unable to compete.

The 200 is always a difficult event indoors with the tight turns. Lane six is
the favored lane as runners have to fight centripetal force less and have less
turn to run. Typically, lanes one and two are not used indoors in this event.
MIT earned two spots in the finals with States Lee and Tyler Singer-Clark
earning those positions, but the lanes were not what MIT hoped for. Singer-
Clark got lane four in the first section while Lee was given lane three in the
other section. Singer-Clark fought hard and ran 22.88 in the final to claim
fifth while Lee could do little in lane three but defeat the lane three runner
in the other section to place seventh in 22.98. Tufts pulled out 11 points to
stay in the meet.

In the 3K, Bullock was favored by a large margin to win, but in his current
condition that was not going to happen. Unfortunately, not only did MIT not
get any points, but Bates picked up 11 crucial points.

MIT was only seeded for two points in the 5K while Tufts was seeded for 17 and
Bates eight. Benji Xie '15, running in the slow section, followed the plan to
stick with 71-72 second quarters and then made a move to take the lead at the
halfway mark when the pace of the leaders slowed. Xie continued with a 4:44
final 1600 to run a personal best 14:59.78 and win the section. Roy Wedge '14,
also in the slow section, ran a great personal indoor best 15:11.07 for second
in that section. The fast section went out exceptionally fast as the group was
trying to reach a national qualifying mark, but this backfired as the leaders
died big. With 200 to go it looked as though Xie might win the event, but a
strong kick by the Tufts runner earned the victory by two seconds over Xie,
who ended up third. Allen Leung '15 placed seventh for MIT in 15:08.46 with
Wedge earning eighth. Bates did not score and Tufts only got the 10 points.

MIT was now up by 2.5 points over Bates with the Triple Jump and the three
relays to go, all strong events for MIT. Tech had three in the finals of the
Triple while Tufts had none and Bates had one, but he was in ninth position
going into the finals. Tech moved up more in the finals with Motley placing
fourth at 45-02 1/4. Jackson Wirekoh '13 placed sixth at 43-3 3/4 and Angel
Echevarria '16 earned seventh place at 43-2 1/4. The 10 points put Tech up by
12.5 going into the relays.

The Distance Medley Relay was first and three of MIT's legs were fresh. Jay
McKenna '14 got things started with the 1200 leg. Even though he went out much
too fast and foolishly took the lead, McKenna ran 3:11.9 to put MIT in fifth
place. Adrian Samsel '16 ran a great 400 in 51.4 to move MIT up to fourth.
Kiggins came back from his successful 1000 to run a strong 1:59.7, keeping
Tech in fourth. Logan Trimble '13 received the baton about thirty meters
behind Bates, whose anchor had earlier won the 800. Trimble ran very
aggressively, starting out with a 61.8 first 400. As Trimble closed he slowed
a bit but still maintained a strong pace, hitting the half in 2:07 and the
1200 in 3:13 while taking the lead and pulling ahead by about 10 meters.
Despite a 62 final quarter Trimble was unable to hold off Bates. Trimble ran
4:15.8 to get MIT a cumulative time of 10:19.07. Bates gained one point on MIT
to cut the lead to 11.5.

Knowing they only needed nine points to clinch the victory, Tech went with the
stronger 4x800, but still had a formidable 4x400 with the three freshmen and
Diamantoni taking care of business. Barnes led off the 4x400 and got the job
done with a 50.8 and the lead. Kaba added a 50.8 and maintained the lead.
Diamantoni lost a bit of the lead with his 52.0 and then Lee had to dig down
with a 50.1 when a surprising Tufts runner came from behind to challenge him
for the victory. Although it appeared MIT won the event at 3:23.97, Williams
College had run .07 faster in the slower section. Bates finished sixth,
putting Tech up by 16.5 to seal the victory.

The 4x800 quartet wanted to win badly despite having the championship in hand.
Parker led off, waited too long to push the pace, only running 29's for the
first quarter, but nevertheless giving MIT a strong lead with his 1:57.7.
Hannon did his job, but slowed after a 57.3 first quarter, finishing in
1:58.6. Gager went out far too fast in 26 for the first 200. He lost the lead
but fought back to hand off even with Tufts. Marx ran from behind and probably
took the lead too soon, since when he did take the lead he did nothing with
it. In the final 200 Tufts took the lead and Marx was unable to regain it
despite his 1:56.9. The overall time for MIT was 7:54.21, good for second
place.

While MIT has the All Division New England Championship next weekend and the
ECAC Division III Championship the week after that, all efforts will now be
about preparing for the NCAA Division III Championship in three weeks.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Records Fall, NCAA Qualifying Performances Highlight MIT's Weekend at NEICAAA
Championship

February 22-23, 2013

MIT sent a few athletes to the NEICAAA Championship hosted by Boston
University with the intent of improving some performances to qualify for the
NCAA Division III Championship in two weeks. A few athletes were rested after
the exhausting effort at the New England Division III Championship the weekend
before, and others were entered only in relays, using next weekend to qualify
in individual events.

The ladies began the first segment of the meet and did so with some remarkable
performances. First Lauren Kuntz '13 won the Pole Vault at a new indoor
personal best of 12-7 1/2. Joanna Chen '15 and Cimran Virdi '16 both cleared
11-1 3/4 with Chen's mark being a new indoor PR.

Perhaps the event of the meet was the women's DMR. The top three teams all
broke the meet record and two of them broke the NCAA Division III record. MIT
started things off with Brooke Johnson '13 running the 1200 leg. Johnson went
out with the leaders, starting out with a 35 first 200, the exact pace she
wanted to run. The pace slowed to 36 and Johnson stayed with the leaders until
the final lap when she was unable to quite stay with them. Her 3:35.0 put MIT
in a solid third position. Cindy Huang '15, moved to the 400 leg for the first
time, raced well. She went out in 28.4 trying to stay with the pure 400
runners and finished in 60.0, a great effort but the team fell back to seventh
position. Alexandra Taylor '14 ran her best race ever. Due to the need to
catch up to the leaders and a slight over aggressive approach, Taylor went out
in 30.9 and 62.8 as she moved Tech back up to third place. She continued to
race well with the leaders from Providence College and Middlebury, finishing
with an amazing 2:11.4 leg. Sarah Quinn '16 continued her "no fear" approach
to racing, staying with the two leaders through splits of 69.9 and 2:24.0
before taking the lead due to the slow pace. She dropped a 71.9, opening up a
nice lead, but in the final 200 the teams started to kick, and even though
Quinn still ran a 71.8 final 400 both Providence and Middlebury caught her.
Quinn's 4:47.8 gave MIT an 11:34.20 time. MIT surpassed both the meet and
national D3 records, but Middlebury beat them for both records and Providence
won the event. Nevertheless, the quartet lowered the MIT record by an amazing
15 seconds.

The men started the meet off with the 400. Current freshman record holder
Michael Kaba was sitting out the competition due to a tender hamstring. States
Lee '16 took advantage of the opportunity to claim the freshman record. He got
out very well, claimed the break, but was then mauled by an opposing runner
who cut in without having a full stride clearance. This broke Lee's stride,
definitely taking a lot of momentum out of his race. Lee continued to race
well, finished second in the section, running 49.51, .04 under Kaba's freshman
record. Tyler Singer-Clark '13 ran the fastest time for the Engineers, a
49.50, but should have been better as he should have raced the first 100 much
faster. Derek Barnes '16 also improved his time, running 49.61, although he
also ran his first 100 much too casually. Nick Diamantoni '15 ran a PR in the
400 as well, clocking 50.01.

Sam Parker '15 was hoping to qualify for nationals in the 800. He ran his best
race to date as an Engineer, but tied up at the end as he allowed his stride
to lengthen when he fatigued, thus slowing him down more. Parker went out in
27.2 and 55.2 as he moved up well in the pack. His 600 was 1:23.3 and he was
in position to win, but then the wheels fell off the bus. He still finished
with a very fast 1:53.41, but not nearly fast enough to make Nationals.

In the 5K, Benji Xie '15, fresh off his 14:59 PR from last week, went with the
leaders in the fast section. It could not have been much better for Xie as the
pace setters went through the mile at 4:39. The second mile slowed but not
appreciably, as they hit 9:23. The third mile was the fastest as they ran 4:38
thanks to a 66 final 400. Xie closed well, finishing in a huge personal best
of 14:35.68 for fourth place.

The men's DMR was the final event of the night. Logan Trimble '13 led things
off for Tech. Running excellent splits of 58.2 and 2:00 to finish in 3:02.8,
Trimble raced very well. States Lee took over the baton duties, and while he
ran 49.7, it should have been much faster. His entire first 200 was run
without any sense of urgency. Pat Marx '13 took over for the 800 leg and ran a
wonderful race. He split 26.0, 54.1 and 1:22.8 before fatiguing and holding
position for a 1:52.3. Kyle Hannon filled the customary duty of anchoring the
relay, and went out very well, leading the chase group through a 61.3. As no
one came around him, Hannon was unaware he was slowing down, which he
definitely did, running the 800 in 2:05.9. Towards the end of the third
quarter the runners started to pass Hannon, but he had settled on the slower
pace for so long he was unable to get back up to speed. His 4:11.6 was fast,
but not fast enough as the team ran 9:57.30, good for seventh place

The mile was the first event on Saturday. For the men, Justin Bullock '14
seemed to be getting better as he worked his way into the slow paced race,
splitting 64, 2:08, 3:13 and then closing in 61 to finish in 4:14.75. On the
women's side, in the second of three sections, the women, including Johnson
and Nicole Zeinstra '16, got over a hundred meters into the race before they
fired the gun for a recall, but the women did not react, running an entire 200
before being stopped. They were given a 15 minute break before the restart. In
the second attempt at the race, Johnson took over the lead after the first
quarter which was a 73 but had started too slow. Zeinstra moved up into second
after the 800, which was 2:28. Johnson continued to set the pace with Zeinstra
in tow, hitting the three quarter in 3:43. They closed at the same pace,
finishing in 4:58.42 and 4:58.64 respectively to place seventh and eighth
overall. In the fast section, Sarah Quinn went out too fast, reacting with too
much aggressiveness trying to go with the leader who was really flying. Quinn
hit the 400 in 67. The second quarter, with Quinn still trying too hard to run
fast, was not much slower as she hit 2:19 at the 800. The third quarter was
significantly slower as Quinn came through in 3:34, obviously starting to tie
up. She held on the best she could but continued to fatigue, finishing with a
4:51.50 for fifth place overall. Quinn's time breaks her own MIT freshman and
varsity records.

Back in the field events, Isabella Stuopis '16 finished seventh in the Shot
Put with her second best throw of the season at 42-04 1/4 to place seventh.
Michelle Johnson '15 had a season best in the Triple Jump with a 36-5. In the
High Jump, Preethi Vaidyanathan '15 cleared 5-3 1/2 on her first attempt but
was unable to clear 5-5 1/4.

The final event for MIT was the 4x400 Relay. With the nearly three second
index penalty for running a 4x400 on a banked track, the Tech team knew they
would need at least a 3:14 to make the National field for certain. Seeded in
the fast section the opportunity would certainly be there. States Lee was the
lead-off man and he did so marvelously, running a 49.0 split. Tyler Singer-
Clark took the baton and went to work passing teams. He held the speed
throughout the leg, running 48.8 to move MIT into third. Derek Barnes ran the
third leg, certainly putting together his best effort of the year with a 48.9.
Barnes held third position although the two chasing teams closed the gap to a
virtual tie. At the handoff one team passed MIT and another team passed at the
end of the backstretch. Pat Marx moved on the two teams, closing the gap to
within a couple of feet at the finish line for a 47.9 anchor and a cumulative
time of 3:14.64, a new MIT record. The old record of 3:15.74 was set by MIT's
most famous 400 runners, back to back national champions; Ayisi Makatiani '90
and Mark Dunzo '91 as well as Kevin Scannell '91 and Bill Singhose '90.

Next week, MIT will send some of their athletes to the ECAC Division III
Championship at the Armory in New York City and most of their athletes to
Tufts for their Last Chance Qualifier.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**BULLOCK BREAKS VARSITY 3K RECORD**

December 1, 2012

Justin Bullock '14 was the lone entry for MIT in Northeastern University's Jay
Carisella Track and Field Invitational, held at the Boston University Track
and Tennis Center.

Not planning on entering anyone in the meet, MIT Coach Halston Taylor was
talked into allowing Bullock to compete by Bullock himself. Bullock's last
hard effort was the NCAA Division III New England Region Cross Country
Championship three weeks ago. So with one week totally off, and no hard
workouts the only thing Bullock had going for him was the confidence and
desire to get a solid New England Division III qualifing time under his belt.
With a relatively short regular season and the desire to qualify in all events
from the 800 through the 5000, along with a national qualifying mark in the
Distance Medley Relay, this meet made sense.

He did not waste the opportunity, running 66-67 second pace for most of the
race, Bullock was in fifth place throughout the first mile, which he split in
4:27. With four laps to go Bullock moved into fourth place and then in the
final 400 he threw down a 62 to move into third and close hard on the leaders.
Bullocks 8:19.12 bests the MIT record set by Ben Schmeckpeper in 2005 of
8:20.69, run on the same track.

MIT has an unofficial Intrasquad Meet on 12/15, and an Alumni Meet on 1/12,
but will not compete intercollegiately until 1/19 in the Harvard Open.

RETURN TO INDOOR  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Taylor's Sets Varsity 800 Record at Terrier Classic

Three Others Set Freshman Records

January 25, 2013

In a meet full of fast times and great performances for MIT's Women's Track
and Field team the two most significant performances at Boston University's
Terrier Classic were a 2:14.77 Varsity record in the 800 by Alexandra Taylor
'14 and another Rookie record by Isabella Stuopis '16, this one a 44-4 1/4
mark in the Weight Throw.

This weekend, MIT hosted their own meet, leaving most of the sprinters,
hurdlers and field event athletes at home where the facilities are superior
for those events. For all oval runners, the banked track at BU is
significantly faster.

In the Mile Run, Louise van den Heuvel '14 led all MIT athletes with a
5:06.16, a slower time than she is capable of running but acceptable at this
time in the season. The slow overall time was due to an inconsistent rhythm in
the race and not establishing herself towards the front of the pack after the
800 mark. Brooke Johnson '13, running in another section, was stuck in a slow
section, coming through the first half in 2:36. Johnson, along with Allison
Hallock '16, negative split the second half in 2:30, giving them overall times
of 5:06.81 and 5:07.77 respectively. Missy Showers '13, back after missing
three years due to various injuries, started her comeback with a fine 5:12.29.

Taylor's 800 was run by following the leaders through splits of 31 and 64 for
the first two laps. She raced well, moving up to second place in the third
lap. Taylor tightened up in the final 150, closing in 70 to fall back to fifth
place. Cindy Huang '15 seemed to lose focus in the final 200 of her race,
nevertheless running a season best of 2:19.46

Marie Burkland '13 ran a 3:06.02 PR in the 1000. Burkland ran a fairly even
pace of 37 second 200's after an initial lap of 34. She contended for the lead
on the final lap, running a very competitive and intelligently run race.

Isabel Crystal '16 ran a personal best in the 500, splitting the 400 in 63.8
she closed well for an overall time of 1:22.25.

The only field event athlete for MIT competing at BU was freshman thrower,
Isabella Stuopis. She still has plenty of technical pieces to work on in both
the Shot Put and the Weight Throw, which is unfortunate for her competitors.
In the Shot Put she threw 41-3 1/4 despite opening up very early and
displaying no block with her arm. In the Weight Throw, a new event for the
rookie, she threw an MIT freshman record of 44-4 1/4 even though she is still
stepping in late and heavy.

In the evening, the distance events took over the track. Shivani Kaushal '15
ran the 3K and raced by far her best ever, running a very competitive even
split race to run a PR of 10:44.68.

In the 5K, Elaine McVay '15, intending to run 82-83 second quarters, got
pulled out by the lead pack in 80-81, splitting the mile in 5:25. Her second
mile slowed as she fatigued, but she remained competitive with a 5:36. She
slowed quite a bit in the third mile, but continued to compete every step,
splitting 5:44. She had nothing left in the final 200, ending with a time of
17:26.91. Claire O'Connell '14 ran a very respectable 18:35 and Kali Benavides
'15 raced a very competitive 18:43.

The final event of the meet for the women, the Distance Medley Relay (DMR) was
on day two of the competition. The quartet of van den Heuvel, Crystal, Huang
and Taylor were hoping to go under 12:00 for their first competitive effort of
the season. van den Heuvel led off with the 1200 leg, racing with the pack
right from the start. Her first 400 was 71.4 as she moved up through the
field. Her second 400 slowed a bit as the field slowed, but she moved to the
front in the final 400, splitting 71 for a 3:38.1. Crystal took the baton for
the 400 leg. Even though she is not a pure 400 runner, she did very well,
running 61.1 as she kept MIT as competitive as possible in fourth place.
Huang, running the 800 leg, wanted to move up in the field, but once she did
not make up ground with her 66.8 first 400, she seemed to lose competitiveness
as she slowed to an overall time of 2:21.1, losing a lot of ground to the
leaders. Taylor had no one around her, so basically was in position to run a
time trial. She ran a very impressive even split race for only her second 1600
ever. She ran 400 splits of 74.5, 2:30.0, 3:46.3, finishing with a 5:01.1 to
move MIT up to fifth place in 12:01.43.

The men's meet for MIT began with the 400. Tech has a few freshman 400 runners
to add to the already deep squad that placed sixth in the 4x400 at last year's
indoor nationals and all but two were running at BU. States Lee '16 started
things off. The North Carolinian did not negotiate the indoor quarter all that
well, first losing the break badly and then having to fight with everyone to
move up. Nevertheless he managed 49.80, slightly slower than the freshman
record. Tyler Singer-Clark '15 was next. He also failed to challenge for the
break and he suffered similar problems, eventually finishing in 49.94.
Fortunately the freshman Michael Kaba '16 decided not to follow the example
set by his teammates. He went out in 23.0, getting the break and taking it
from there, setting the freshman record in 49.54. Mac Gager '14 moved down an
event, racing his first 400 ever. His lack of sprint speed made it close to
impossible to get the break then trying to move past everyone was equally
difficult. Gager went out in 23.8, finishing in 50.69. Derek Barnes was the
next freshman on the line. Barnes also took the break, running 23.3 to do so.
He held his competition off on the final back straight, then closing to run
49.64, also under the old freshman record. Nick Diamantoni '15 was the final
entry for MIT. Diamantoni also took the break and also won his section. He
backed off a bit during the final lap, which cost him in his quest to break
50. Instead he finished in 50.20.

DJ Ronde was the only entry for the Engineers in the 500. Ronde went out well
and even got the break in 24, but lost it immediately as they entered the
turn. Seizing the lead with a lap to go Ronde passed the 400 in 50.8.
However,his technique of leaning too far forward eventually got to his quads,
tying him up as he finished in 1:06.68.

In the 800, most of the MIT racers were reacting to the situations in front of
them instead of predicting what would happen based on the pace and position of
individuals, and then putting themselves in favorable positions. The result
was getting boxed in, getting stuck behind large fields and getting hung out
wide on the turns. Nevertheless some good times were achieved. Pat Marx '13
ran 1:54.94. Jared Forman '13 ran an outstanding race, moving up through the
field well and earning a nice PR of 1:55.77. Sam Parker '15, still coming back
from injury, reacted to things, but did not own the race. He died pretty hard,
but finished in 1:56.04. The surprise of the event for the Engineers was
supplied by Harrison Hunter '15. Hunter ran for the win and did just that,
crushing his competition in 1:58.59 in one of the later sections.

Justin Bullock '14 was planning on getting the MIT record of 2:26.38 in the
1000. However, the pace felt too fast even at 29 for the first 200, so his
confidence dropped off enough that he no longer tried to win the section. He
got back on the horse in the final lap, closing in 28 to finish with a
2:28.77. Chadd Kiggins '15 ran a respectable 2:31.04, but the 1:53 half miler
has the ability to be under 2:30.

In the 4x400, Tech ran two teams. Team A consisted of Singer-Clark leading
off, Lee in second, Kaba on third leg and Marx running anchor. Singer-Clark
went out too slow for the first 150 and again missed getting the break,
forcing him to cut his speed going into the turn bringing him in with a 50.2.
Lee took the baton and went out perhaps with too much effort, but he did take
the lead, hitting 22.7 for the 200. He got passed in the final 100 as he tied
up but still ran a respectable 49.6. Kaba had a nice handoff and got out in
23.1. Kaba continued to run strong, finishing in 49.1. Marx, really an 800
runner, still has the necessary speed to get out well in the 400 and he did.
His 23.0 set up a 49.0 anchor, bringing MIT in with a 3:18.09. The banked
track index will probably keep this time from making the NCAA Championship, so
the team will have to continue to improve. The B unit, made up of Barnes,
Gager, Diamantoni and Parker ran pretty equivalent to the A team for the first
two legs. Barnes led off with a 50.0. Gager improved nicely from his open 400,
splitting 49.6. Diamantoni has trouble running his best unless challenged so
he did not get out fast enough. He still managed a 50.0. Parker had a nice
lead, but did not get out well at all, splitting the 200 in 24.6 and then
proceeding to tie up, finishing in 51.2. Overall the B team ran 3:20.86.

The final event for MIT was the 5K. Three Tech runners still needed to run the
New England Division III qualifying time of 15:30. They wanted to run 72's,
which Allen Leung '15 and Matt Jordan '15 were able to do through 3600, but
Edgar Gridello '16 was only able to hold 73's and fell off of that at 2400
meters. However, all three kept racing, never losing focus. Leung finished
strong, ending with a 15:05.12. Jordan fell off at 3600, but came back at the
end to finish in 15:09.83. Even though Gridello dropped off pace, he still
managed to run 15:27.28 to qualify for the upcoming championship.

Back at MIT there were not a lot of highlights. The event that supplied the
best results was the women's Pole Vault. Lauren Kuntz '13 cleared a season
best of 12-3 1/2. Cimmy Virdi '16 set a freshman record with a vault of 11-5
3/4. Also clearing a season best was Sherry Wan '16 who made 10-0.

Also impressive for the women was sophomore Preethi Vaidyanathan's 5-3 3/4 in
the High Jump, matching her personal best. Stephanie Birkhimer '14 jumped a
personal best 16-2 1/2 in the Long Jump.

Next week the Engineers travel across town to Tufts University for a large
invitational. This meet will be the next to last opportunity to get
performances that will place individuals in top positions for the New England
Division III Championship on 2/15-16.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Men Dominate at Tufts Stampede, Women Claim Second But Dominate Distances

February 2, 2013

With the new NCAA indexing penalty for banked and oversized tracks (3+ for the
mile, 9+ for the 5K, 8+ for the DMR), more and more teams are seeking the
fastest of the flat tracks in order to achieve the best times. Due to the
radius, Tufts is known to have one of the fastest flat tracks and 20+ teams
gathered on Saturday to test it out.

MIT joined the fray at the Tufts Stampede, hoping to both win the meet and
qualify as many individuals as possible for the upcoming championships. The
women started the meet with the 3000 and hoped to score big points while
qualifying a few new individuals racing the 3K for the first time. The race
plan was for Brooke Johnson '13 and Allison Hallock '16 to run 81 pace the
entire way while Sarah Quinn '16 and Nicole Zeinstra '16 were to run 83 second
quarters until only 1000 meters were remaining and then they could race if
they felt strong enough to do so. Johnson and Hallock set the initial pace a
little fast at 78 for the first 400. Quinn and Zeinstra were appropriately
behind but too fast at a high 80. They then settled in on the correct pace.
Johnson hit the 1600 in 5:19. Hallock had fallen off the brisk pace to 5:26.
Quinn and Zeinstra had run the fourth quarter a little quick, coming through
the 1600 in 5:27. At the prescribed 2000 mark, Quinn took off like she was
running for her life, lowering her pace to 76 and then 73 as she passed
Johnson, who was caught off guard and unable to respond to the momentum Quinn
had going for her. Johnson smashed the previous MIT record of 10:05.97 by over
four seconds with a 10:01.74. Quinn set both the varsity and freshman records
with her 9:56.01 performance. Her final mile was a 5:11. MIT scored 36 points
by sweeping 1-6 places.

The women collected four more victories during the meet. Lauren Kuntz '13 set
a new indoor personal best in the pole vault with her victory, clearing 12-5
1/2, which currently has her ranked second in the country for Division III.
This was Tech's second best event as they scored 25 points. Preethi
Vaidyanathan '15 cleared 5-3 3/4 for the second week in succession to win the
event, taking the victory over two higher ranked jumpers. Alexandra Taylor
'14, coming back from a second place in the Mile Run with a 5:04.31, took the
1000 by taking the lead at the 600 mark and running a 73 final quarter to win
in 3:00.98. The final victory was fittingly in the final event of the meet,
the 4x800 Relay. Cindy Huang '15 (2:20), Hallock (2:24), Marie Burkland '13
(2:26) and Louise van den Heuvel '14 (2:24) opened up a big lead en route to
9:35.93 victory.

Isabella Stuopis '16 set yet another freshman record, this one an improvement
on her Weight Throw record, moving the new mark to 45-1.

The Triple Jump was a successful event for the Engineers as all four jumpers
qualified for the New England Division III Championship. Michelle Johnson '15
led the young jumpers with a third place 35-6, followed by Stephanie Birkhimer
'14 in fourth at 35-1 1/4, Katharina Ross '16 in fifth at 34-10 1/4 and
Veronica Szklarzewski '15 not scoring at 34-4.

The women finished a close second to the host Jumbos 166-155. The next closest
team was Williams College with 95. This was a good preview of arguably the top
three teams in New England Division III, the same three teams likely to do
battle for the title in two weeks.

The men won their meet handidly, cruising to victory with 162 points. The
closest team was Williams at 85.5 points. Tufts, a much stronger team than
they showed did not compete many of their top runners. The top team in New
England Division III, Bates College, was at another meet.

The men also won five events, dominating mostly with their long sprinters and
middle distance runners, although two of their stars Justin Bullock '14 and
Kyle Hannon '13 were inhibited by current or lingering illnesses.

Their two highest scoring events, the Triple Jump and 200 were not victories.
In the Triple, Jackson Wirekoh '13 revisited seasons past, finding his rhythm
to place second in 44-2 1/2. Carrington Motley '16, having difficultly being
consistent, was far off his best of 46' as he finished third in 43-5. Angel
Echevarria '16 claimed fourth at 42-8 3/4, fellow freshman Arinze Okeke '16
also jumped 42-8 3/4 for fifth and Adrian Samsel '16 landed at 41-11 1/2 to
claim sixth.

In the 200, Tyler Singer-Clark 14, having difficulty finding his championship
speed from last year, found some of it, taking second place in 23.02 out of
lane three. Michael Kaba '16 claimed third in 23.16 and States Lee '16 took
fifth in 23.26 even though he won his section.

MIT continued to show their strength in the running events with Lee taking
first place honors in the 400 prior to his 200 effort. Lee's time of 50.96 was
his best flat track indoor effort. Pat Marx '13 followed that up with a win in
the 600, taking a close one in 1:22.27. Sam Parker '15, still nursing a tender
knee, took fourth in 1:22.60.

MIT took both relay events, the 4x400 and the 4x800. In the 4x400, Tech put
their four star freshmen together to go for the MIT freshman record. Kaba,
Derrick Barnes '16, Samsel and Lee destroyed the record, running 3:24.28. Kaba
started things off in 50.8. Barnes leg was a 51.7. Samsel ran a nice 51.3 and
Lee brought it home in 50.4. In the 4x800, some of MIT's top runners were
ailing, so a couple of replacements were called to step up and they got the
job done. Jared Forman '13 doubled back with a 1:59.5 leadoff. Logan Trimble
'13 did his job with a 2:01.1 as he gave MIT the lead. Harrison Hunter '15
faded a bit at the end, finishing in 2:03.1. Marx, getting accustomed to
winning, outkicked the Tufts' anchor with a 1:57.5 to bring the team to
victory in 8:01.29.

Matt Jordan '15 is really having a great season, demonstrating he knows how to
not only run hard, but also to go for the win. In the 3000, he took the lead
with 600 to go, pulling away to a 8:42.55 victory.

Even though he was sick, Bullock demonstrated the competitiveness a champion
needs to have. While a few were asking not to compete, Bullock never
complained, just stepped up and raced the mile. In a strategic race he claimed
second in 4:24.04 as his legs were willing but the breathing was not there. In
two weeks Bullock hopes to lead his team against the Bobcats from Bates and
hopefully win their third title in four years. The women also hope to contend
for the title despite the lack of sprinters.

Next week, MIT will be spreading themselves between a DMR invitation at Tufts,
another major meet on the banked track at Boston University and their own meet
at MIT, all three meets will be non-scoring.

RETURN TO INDOOR  
  
  |  
  



