




**THE "HAS BEENS" TAKE MIT VARSITY TO SCHOOL IN WINNING 71-59**

January 7, 2006

For the first time since 1998, the alumni team ran away with the victory over
the varsity team.  Led by Rick Rajter (18 points), Ravi Sastry (12 points),
Ben Schmeckpeper (10 points) and the ageless Bill Singhose (9 points), the
alumni schooled the varsity athletes in how to compete and come away
victorious.

With the attrition of many of last year's varsity athletes and the addition of
Schmeckpeper and Zach Traina to the alumni forces, the varsity were considered
underdogs going into the annual competition.  The meet began with the
pentathlon early in the morning.  Each team had one entry, Rajter representing
the "Has Beens" and Thad Wozniak competing for the varsity.  Rajter was able
to better Wozniak in four of the five events (55HH, long jump, shot put, high
jump and 1000) holding back in the 1000 to save energy for the rest of the
meet later in the day.

The field events kicked off the main part of the meet, specifically the 35lb.
weight throw and  the long jump.  Uzoma Orji did his part by throwing a season
best and his second best throw ever at 62-6.  Bill Singhose, a decathlete and
pole vaulter during his varsity days, scored 3 points with a second place
throw of 40-3.  In the long jump, Wozniak had the early lead but Sastry,
Rajter and Craig Mielcarz all passed him to sweep the event for the alumni.

The shot put and triple jump followed the weight throw and long jump.
Freshman, James Oleinik threw 44-7 to add the second place points to Orji's
first place throw of 56-11 1/4 to help the varsity's cause.  The triple jump
results were similar to the long jump as Rajter and Singhose took first and
second to pick up eight more points and cancel out the shot put results.

In the two vertical jump events, the pole vault and the high jump, the alumni
pulled further ahead.  Singhose, who had placed second in the triple jump by a
half inch, managed another second place in the pole vault by beating out Omari
Stephens on misses at 13-6.  Nate Ball earned the victory for the varsity at
15-0.  In the high jump, Mielcarz, Rajter and Sastry swept the varsity with a
1-2-3 finish.  Overall, after the pentathlon and the field events, the "Has
Beens" were leading 38-21.

The mile was the first running event and Ben Schmeckpeper wasted no time
taking the lead.  After a conservative first half at 2:13, freshman, Jake
Ruzevick made an attempt to pass Schmeckpeper.  However the attempt was much
too casual and was easily thwarted by Schmeckpeper.  Now alert for the pass,
Schmeckpeper ran just fast enough to keep the pace honest yet saving enough to
counter any pass attempt from Ruzevick.  After two more failed attempts,
Ruzevick made his final attempt with 150 to go.  Schmeckpeper held him out in
lane two around the final turn and that was enough to earn the victory 4:25.51
to 4:25.95.

In the high hurdles, Al Tervalon '67, joined the "old timers" but pulled his
calf at the start.  However, Sastry and Rajter took care of business, holding
off a fast closing Stephens to earn first and second, scoring eight more
points for the alumni.

In the 400, Matt Lehman and Yuval Mazor showed Alex Rothberg the intensity
that was necessary to take the break.  Their 10 meter lead after the first 200
was never threatened as they ran 51.96 and 52.24 respectively.

Zach Traina came ready to run and set a personal best of 6.61 in the 55 meter
dash, but David Blau also came ready to run.  Blau was able to walk down his
former teammate with a PR of 6.60 to claim a victory for the varsity.  Stephen
Oney claimed third with a time of 6.92 to give the varsity their first running
event.

On a role now, the varsity swept the 800 with a 1-2-3 finish by freshmen, Dan
Rodgers, Ruzevick and Matt Bieniosek.  The pace started very pedestrian with a
32 second first 200.  The pace picked up a little from there, giving Rodgers a
final time of 2:03.10.  Bieniosek was threatened at the finish by Chris
Fidkowski but managed to hold him off at the line.

The 200 was a duplicate of the 55.  Traina got out with his patented fast
first 100, but Blau held his own.  Coming around the final turn, Blau pulled
even and then ahead as he ran a meet record 22.97 to Traina's 22.99.

The alumni clinched the victory with points earned in the 200 by Traina and
supported by a third place from Lehman.  Nevertheless, Schmeckpeper was not
taking any chances with the scorekeepers, as he took to the line in the 5000.
Again Schmeckpeper took the lead at the start, coming through the first 800 in
2:24.  Only Eric Khatchadourian made the attempt to go with him and that was
short lived as Schmeckpeper went on to win in 15:12.40.  Khatchadourian held
on to run 15:53.85 for second place.  The battle for third between Craig
Wildman and Trevor Rundell was a great one that went back and forth for nearly
the entire race.  Wildman surged after the 800 mark and pushed the pace
whenever Rundell came up on him. Once Rundell took the lead Wildman did not go
away, hanging on until the final 800 meters.  Rundell ran a fine time of
15:59.41.  Terry McNatt '87, running 16:18.22, using the age-graded tables,
would move up to second place.

The final event was the 4x200 relay.  The alumni have only won this race once
in the past 24 years and that was when a varsity runner pulled up lame.  This
year would be no different as Blau opened up an insurmountable lead on the
first leg.  Rodgers, Rothberg and Bieniosek finished the relay with a
comfortable two second victory to bring the final score to 71-59.

Other alumni competing were Akin Aina (55, 800 relay), Francisco Cruz (WT,
SP), Josh Feldman (5000), George Hanson (800), Mark Jeunnette (800), Steve
Lefkowitz (PV), Jeff Lukas (800) and Ned Rich (WT, SP).  This was a great
turnout, particularly considering some traveled such great distances.
Singhose came from Japan, Jeunnette from Germany and Mazor from Seattle.  With
Ball, Blau and Orji graduating this year it may be a while before the varsity
wins again.

MIT travels to the Coast Guard Academy to face the Bears and the Bobcats from
Bates next Saturday.  The Engineers will have a challenge winning meets this
year with the holes in their lineup.  The pressure will be on the freshmen to
get the job done and maintain the winning tradition for MIT.



RETURN TO INDOOR




**MIT MEN RUN AWAY WITH COMPETITION TO PUT RECORD AT 9-1**

January 28, 2006

MIT men's track and field team traveled to Brunswick, Maine on Saturday to
face host Bowdoin College, Colby College, Gordon College, Springfield College
and Tufts University.  Tufts was favored in the meet based on the seeds but
did not to seem to have the energy necessary to overcome the Engineers, who
were anxious to finally run on a 200 meter track and show they could run,
throw and jump with the best in New England Division III.  MIT pulled ahead
late in the meet, dominating the last of the field events to beat Tufts by a
score of 184 to 156.    Bowdoin College followed in the scoring with 98
points, just ahead of Springfield.  Colby trailed with 20 points while Gordon
failed to score.  Only six places were awarded points using the 10-8-6-4-2-1
scoring format for meets with five or more teams.

All the squads seemed to have left good individuals out of the meet.  For
Tufts a few of their top distance runners had run at a large invitational the
night before, and for MIT, Nate Ball, New England's premier vaulter, was at
the pole vault summit in Reno, Nevada.  The determined team from Tech started
off well in the first events.  In the trials for the 55HH, Omari Stephens ran
a personal best of 8.10.  David Blau followed that up in the 55 dash trials by
running the fastest qualifying time of 6.71.  In the finals, both lived to up
to expectation.  Stephens narrowly missed the victory, running another PR of
8.09 to Bowdoin College's Joe Adu in 8.08.  In the process, Stephens upset the
top seeded hurdler from Tufts, who finished third.  Blau left nothing to
chance, winning in 6.63.

In the first oval event, Jake Ruzevick took the pace out in the mile.  His
early splits of 64 and 2:08 strung out the field, with teammates Fivos
Constantinou running right with him, and Yermie Cohen running a few seconds
off the pace.  The pace dragged a bit in the third quarter, slowing to 3:15.
Owen McKenna of Bowdoin pulled ahead and ran to an easy victory in 4:16.64.
Ruzevick set a personal best, placing second in 4:19.78.  Constantinou and
Cohen ran season bests to place 3rd and 4th respectively with times of 4:21.07
and 4:29.97.  MIT outscored Tufts 18 to two.  This momentum affected the rest
of the team as 42 personal or seasonal bests were set.

In the field events, Anthony Teixeira continued to improve in his specialty,
the triple jump. "Tex" jumped 43-0 1/2 to place fourth and break up a very
good jumping squad from Tufts.  Stephens lent a hand here as well, jumping a
best of 41-4 1/2 to place sixth.  Tufts outscored MIT 18-5 in the event but
Coach Taylor of MIT expected much worse.   Uzoma Orji did not have his best
day in the weight throw but still managed to win by over four feet, throwing
61-1 1/2.  Tufts countered in the high jump, sweeping the first three places
as well as fifth to garner 26 points to MIT's 0.

Back on the track, MIT tried to dig out of the whole.  Not expecting, but
hoping to score in the 400, Alex Rothberg ran a personal best of 52.54 to
place fourth.  Even though Tufts scored 12 points to MIT's four, it could have
been much worse.  In the 600, freshman Dan Rodgers held off a Tufts runner
down the stretch to win in 1:24.58. Rodgers was supported by Aron Walker,
running 1:26.68 for fifth place.

In the 800, Constantinou doubled back, took the pace out aggressively in 58
for the first 400, but tied up in the final 300, getting overtaken by a runner
from Tufts and Colby and settling for third.  Matt Bieniosek ran a personal
best of 2:01.02, placing fifth by .01 seconds.  Tufts came out on top due to
the event win, 10-8.  The 1000 was next and Ruzevick went out with a
vengeance.  He ran 2:01 through the 800, holding off Mahoney from Tufts until
the final lap.  Ruzevick settled for a very fast second place of 2:32.24.
Cohen showed he is coming around to top form as he placed fourth in 2:36.89.
MIT came out with a slight edge over Tufts 12-10.

David Blau got back on the track in the 200 meter dash.  Blau won easily,
running a season best of 22.83.  Thad Wozniak ran a season best of 23.64 to
place sixth and give MIT another one point edge over Tufts.

Finally, the distance events were coming up and MIT was up to the task.  In
the 3000, Bowdoin placed first and second by out kicking the front running
tandem of Chris Bruce and Joe Roy-Mayhew, who place third and fourth with
personal bests of 8:57.64 and 9:00.33.  Immediately following the 3000, the
runners took to the track in the 5000.  Eric Khatchadourian and Trevor Rundell
took the lead and pushed the pace, but this time they would not be caught.
Rundell ran a huge personal best of 15:25.95.  Khatchadourian, doing all the
work early in the race, faded a little in the end but still ran 15:34.07 for
second.  Chris Wong was back to his old form, placing fourth in 15:44.82 and
Spencer Dudley ran a personal best of 15:51.98 to give MIT 23 points in the
event.

On the infield, the throwers and jumpers were taking care of business.  In the
long jump, another event MIT figured to lose.  Tufts jumpers managed the win
and a sixth place, but MIT came through big for third through fifth to score
12 big points.  Orji and outstanding freshman, James Oleinik placed first and
third, throwing season bests of 59-4 and 47-11 1/4 respectively.  Springfield
throwers came through, holding Tufts to zero points.  Finally, in the pole
vault, despite the absence of Ball, Stephens and Barragan managed first and
fifth to Tufts second.  Stephens joined MIT's top ten list for indoor vaults
with his personal best of 14-0 1/2.

The "team effort" could not have been better.  This meet marked the end of
MIT's regular season competition against division III opponents.   Next week
(2/6) MIT goes across the river to Boston University to take on division I
teams BU, Boston College, Northeastern University and Providence College.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**NATE BALL VAULTS MIT OVER DIVISION I COMPETITION**

February 6, 2006

MIT took a break from their traditional Division III competition, moving over
to the very nice Boston University indoor track and field facility to compete
against Boston College, Boston University, Northeastern University and
Providence College in a non-scoring meet.  Having defeated these same teams
last year in this meet, the Engineers were looking forward to the opportunity
of a scoring meet.  However, with Jake Ruzevick out sick and Fivos
Constantinou nursing a groin injury, the result may not have been as favorable
for Tech.

MIT pulled out four victories, all in the field events.  Nate Ball led the way
with a new personal indoor best and new MIT indoor record of 16-6 in the pole
vault.  Ball's jump made the automatic standard for the NCAA Division III
Championship next month.  Uzoma Orji continued his undefeated ways, winning
both the weight throw and the shot put.  The unexpected victory came from
Omari Stephens in the triple jump.  Stephens set a personal best en route to
his 42-02 1/2 victory.

MIT garnered few top places in the meet, but David Blau managed to get two of
them.  Blau ran 6.73 on the slow sprint surface to claim second in the 55 dash
and 22.62 in the 200 to claim third.  In two events MIT claimed a 1-2 victory.
Anthony Teixeira supported Stephens' triple jump effort with a second place
finish and James Oleinik finished second to Orji in the shot put with yet
another personal best of 48-01 1/2.

In addition, there were some remarkable performances turned in by Tech.
Constantinou turned in a courageous effort in the mile despite his groin
problems.  Coming off a slow third quarter, Constantinou ran a 61 final 400 to
record a 4:16.52 fourth place finish.  In the one distance event of the
evening, Joe Roy-Mayhew ran a consistent pace and set a huge personal best in
the 3000 of 8:46.53.

Other strong performances were accomplished by Matt Bieniosek in the 800
(1:58.98), Thad Wozniak in the 200 (23.01), Ryan King in the 3000 (9:07.50),
Aron Walker in the 500 (1:08.65) and Stephen Oney in the 55 (6.81).

This coming Saturday, MIT will split their squad, sending some to the Boston
University Valentine's Meet while keeping others at home for the MIT Coed
Invitational.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**BALL AND ORJI START THE SEASON THE WAY THE ENDED LAST YEAR**

**Three Events, Three National Qualifying Marks**

December 3, 2005

Nate Ball and Uzoma Orji were the only two Engineers who made the trip across
the river to the Northeastern University Husky Track and Field Carnival run at
the Reggie Lewis Center, but they made MIT's presence felt. Orji, having only
thrown a couple of times in practice thus far, displayed the spin technique in
the shot put for the first time. The result was nothing less than a win with a
huge throw of 58-6 3/4.

Before the shot put, Orji threw in the trials in the 35 lb. weight throw and
finished the weight throw after the shot. Not quite near his Division III
national record of 64-9 1/4, his winning effort of 61-2 was by far his best
non championship throw ever. Both the shot and weight marks surpassed the
automatic standard for the NCAA Championships in March.

Nate Ball, granted another indoor season on a hardship waiver due to an injury
his sophomore year, made the most of his first meet, clearing 15-5 1/2 to
claim second place in the pole vault. Ball's mark was a provisional qualifying
mark for the NCAA Championships.

Ball and Orji earned 9th place as a team at last year's NCAA Division III
Indoor Track and Field Championship. They hope to do even better this year and
are certainly off to a pretty good start.

The Engineer's next meet will be against their own Alumni on January 7.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**ORJI TUNES-UP FOR NCAA'S WITH IC4A WEIGHT THROW VICTORY**

March 4-5, 2006

With only two IC4A qualifiers, MIT was previewing what it would be like at
next week's NCAA Division III Championship at this weekend's IC4A championship
being held at Boston University.  Nate Ball, seeded third at the IC4A
championship is tied for third seed at the NCAA championship.  Uzoma Orji,
seeded third in the weight throw and fourth in the shot put at the IC4A
championship is seeded second and first respectively at the NCAA championship.
The opportunity to score a record number of points in the modern era was at
hand.

Ball led off in the vault.  Looking good in warmups, Ball was unable to make
it work.  Unable to clear a height, Ball has to settle for waiting until next
week to put it all together.  Orji started slow in the 35lb. weight throw,
finishing fourth after the trials.  On his first throw of the finals, Orji
threw 63' to move into third place.  On his second throw he took over the lead
with a 64' 9 effort.  On his final throw he put the event away with a new MIT
record of 65' 1 1/2 to become Tech's first ever IC4A weight throw winner and
the first champion in any event in the modern era (since 1960).

In the shot put, Orji could not find the position in the front of the circle
to be able to really put everything into the throw.  After the trials he was
in fourth position with a throw of 55-2 1/4.  In the finals Orji could not
improve his mark and was passed by one thrower.  Nevertheless, his 14 points
was certainly pretty incredible at this very prestigious meet.

Next week, Orji and Ball head to St. Olaf College in Northfield, Minnesota for
the NCAA Division III.  The pole vault and weight throw will be contested on
Friday and the shot put on Saturday.  Schedule and results can be found at
http://www.stolaf.edu/athletics/ncaatr/schedule.htm

RETURN TO INDOOR




**ORJI CARRIES MIT TO EIGHTH PLACE FINISH, EARNING NATIONAL FIELD ATHLETE OF
THE YEAR**

  
March 10-11, 2006  
NCAA Championships

  
Uzoma Orji has been carrying the MIT team the entire season and nothing
changed at the NCAA Division III Championship, hosted by St. Olaf College in
Northfield, Minnesota.  Uzoma matched his seeds, earning second place in the
weight throw and first in the shot put to score 18 points by himself, leading
the team to an eighth place finish and first among New England colleges.

The men's weight throw competition started slow but finished as one of the
most competitive events ever in this meet.  Uzoma got in a relaxed mark on his
first throw of 58' .75" which was certainly not going to win anything but
relaxed the nerves. Kevin Becker from UW La Crosse immediately following was
able to get a mark of 58' 7.5" to the applause of the crowd. Probably under
the assumption that if he got one in the sector he would be able to win after
fouling-out last year as the heavy favorite and fouling out last weekend at
the WIAC Championships. After that round only Brandon Houle from UW Oshkosh
had a respectable throw at 60' 5.25".  
  
On the second round Uzoma let loose with a 63' 11" throw which seemed to
rattle everyone else. Becker fouled his second attempt and needed a farther
mark to ensure a spot in finals. On Uzoma's third attempt he unleashed a huge
throw but unfortunately was not able to stay in the circle. Becker stepped up
and threw a new NCAA record of 66' 9.5" to take the lead. Brandon Houle
improved his throw to 61' 11.75" thus ending the first flight.  
  
The second flight featured three throwers over 60'. Dan Austin from Williams
was able to throw 60' 6.5" on his first attempt. Jim Uppena from UW
Platteville improved upon his seed by throwing 63' 5.5" on his third attempt
after Anderson College's Dwayne Lockridge was able to tie Uzoma with a 63' 11"
second attempt throwing a near two meter personal best.  
  
Due to Lockridge's second-best throw beating Uzoma's second-best throw Uzoma
entered finals in third. Finals started with a fury as three of the first five
throwers improved their marks. Dan Austin actually went from 6th to 8th before
he even got his first attempt. Brandon Houle threw 63' 4.75" on his first
attempt as Uppena, and Lockridge were unable to improve.  Uzoma managed
another better throw but was unable to stay in the circle on an extremely
close call on the front rim.  Becker stepped up and improved his throw to 68'
3.75" which would be his best on the day.  
  
The second round of finals was relatively quiet except for Uzoma's huge sector
foul. On his last turn he was again heavy on his right and had a flight phase
on his left which appeared to force his throw out the left side. While several
feet out of the sector it appeared that this throw was farther than Becker's
record. He knew he had the distance for at least a big personal best but he
also knew he only had one chance left.  
  
In the last round Brandon Houle improved his mark to 63' 11" becoming the
third thrower to be at that mark.  Due to his second-best throw he moved up
from fifth to second place. Uzoma stepped up on his last attempt to change
that. While his attempt certainly wasn't the best looking throw of the day it
got the job done with 63' 6.5" beating Houle's second mark moving Uzoma from
fourth to second.

In the pole vault, Nate Ball came in at 15-1 3/4, clearing it on his first
attempt.  At 15-7 3/4, Nate needed two attempts to clear but felt as though he
was jumping well.  At 16-1 3/4 Nate was well over the bar on his attempts but
could not get the standards set in a position so that he would not come down
on them.  Finishing in a tie for 9th was very frustrating for the two time All
America winner as he ends his collegiate career.

In the shot put Uzoma was favored to win by a large margin but coming into the
meet was shaky with some mediocre meets over the last three weeks. In the
first flight everyone seemed to be flat as the best throw was Uzoma's at 55'
3.5". In the second flight Alex Kampersol from Springfield College threw a big
personal best to tie Uzoma. With his better second throw Kampersol was first
going into finals.

Uzoma knew he had to hit a throw and put this away. With a loud yell Uzoma
threw 57' 11.25" essentially putting first place out of reach. Some other
throwers would move up but when Uzoma stepped into the circle and delivered a
58' 3.75" he knew it was his and let out a yell that caught everyone's
attention. Going into his last throw the entire crowd started to clap for him
and he called them out while in the circle to get louder. He wasn't able to
improve on his final throw but added a solid 57' 7 in winning the national
title by nearly two feet.

Uzoma was named Field Performer of the NCAA Championship for the third time
indoors and was awarded Regional Field Athlete of the Year as well as National
Field Athlete of the Year, a first for a MIT track and field athlete.  With
one season to go in his remarkable career, Uzoma has won three national titles
and 10 all america honors.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**SENIORS LEAD WAY IN NEW ENGLAND DIVISION III CHAMPIONSHIP**

February 18, 2006

With the exception of the relays, the seniors and two sophomores scored all
the points for MIT as the Engineers finished fourth out of 25 teams in the New
England Division III Championship hosted at MIT this weekend. Favored Williams
College took care of business, scoring 153 points to runner-up Tufts
University with 131 points.  MIT battled Bates College the entire meet for
third place, eventually bowing out when the relays failed to produce the
necessary competitiveness Tech runners were capable of.

The freshman class has proven to be one of MIT's strongest classes ever,
represented by the fact that the class of '09 scored only 2 1/2 points less
than the class of '06 and more than the classes of '07 and '08 combined, but
failed to score a single point in open events even though they were seeded to
score 13 points.  In addition, with a reasonable opportunity to win the
distance medley relay, the all freshman team failed to do anything that
represented a competitive effort, finishing sixth in the 12 team field.  The
time of 10:39.52 did set a new MIT freshman record but that was little
consolation with third place on the line.

Uzoma Orji used his broad shoulders and tried to carry the team on his back
but only a few would follow.  Orji won both the 35lb. weight throw and the
shot put with meet record efforts of 62-9 1/4 and 57-10 respectively.  Once
his competitions were concluded he was all over the track supporting his
teammates.

Team support, a trademark of the MIT track and field teams over the years, was
sorely lacking in this meet.  Instead, Tufts University showed the type of
support, in MIT's house, that put the Engineers to shame.  Beginning with the
pentathlon held on Friday, Tufts had about 20 team members supporting their
competitors where MIT had only an occasional team member showing up to offer
support.  This continued on Saturday as MIT seemed defeated from the start.

Senior tri-captain, David Blau stepped up in a big way, finishing third in
both the 55 and 200 meter dashes.  In the 55 dash, Blau began the day with a
personal best in the trials with a 6.59 effort.  He then lined up for the 200
trials and proceeded to run a flat track best of 22.88 to win his heat easily.
In the finals, he ran another personal best, this one a 6.56 performance that
required a photo reading down to the 1000th of a second to break what appeared
to be a tie for third.  Finally, in the final of the 200, Blau, running out of
lane 4, ran another flat track best, this one in 22.70.

MIT was counting on the pole vault in a big way because Nate Ball 'G, was
favored by two feet over the rest of the competition and Omari Stephens '08,
was seeded third.  Stephens managed 13-6, six inches under his best, but the
other competitors were not able to jump any higher either.  However, Stephens
took three tries to clear the height, tying him for fourth place. Ball,
opening at 15', was unable to clear on his three attempts.  What should have
been 16 points turned into 4 1/2.

Eric Khatchadourian shook off what had been a sub-standard season for him thus
far, and raced his best indoor effort ever.  Khatchadourian, seeded 15 in the
20 man 5000 meter field, went with the leaders at the start and never backed
off.  Fading a little in the final mile, he delivered with all he had to
secure fourth place and hold off a fast closing Wesleyan runner.

Senior Fivos Constantinou, seeded fifth in the mile, did not run his best
race, but he did finish well to hold onto seventh place in 4:20.13.  All
seniors on the team stepped up to score in this meet, Thad Wozniak taking care
of his end in the pentathlon on Friday in the pentathlon.  Wozniak scored 2915
points for eighth place, performing personal bests in the 55HH with a time  of
8.59 and in the 1000 with a performance of 2:56.17.

Stephens was the only Tech athlete in three events.  In addition to scoring in
the pole vault he earned a sixth in the 55HH, running two personal bests on
the day, 8.08 in the trials and 8.07 in the finals.  Stephens also competed in
the triple jump, but was not favored to score and was unable to do anything to
change that seed.

One of the strongest efforts of the day went to sophomore Joe Roy-Mayhew in
the 3000 meter race.  Roy-Mayhew was seeded fourth based on his 8:46
performance at Boston University's banked track from the week before.  Roy-
Mayhew went out with the leaders and held on as long as he could, running
70-71 seconds per 400 for the entire race before kicking it in for fifth place
in 8:48.89.

The final points of the day came from the 4x800 relay.  At this point, in
order to defeat Bates, MIT needed to finish first while second place would tie
with them.  Constantinou was not competitive after the first 400, racing from
the back and leaving the team in a severe deficit in seventh place with his
2:03 effort.  Aron Walker '07, made a move in the final 400 but his 2:03 left
MIT in only sixth place. David Reshef ran a courageous 2:01, moving MIT up to
fifth place as he handed the baton off the Matt Bieniosek. Bieniosek ran a
2:00 despite a first 200 in 26 seconds, but actually lost a place to a fast
anchor from Amherst College.

Despite the efforts of the senior class, MIT fell five points short of third
place.  Letting this opportunity slip away will hopefully make the freshman
class stronger eventually and better prepared to scored in the meet in the
future.

Next week, a dozen or so competitors with go over to Boston University for the
NEICAAA Championship, an all division New England Championship in which MIT
finished 9th last year.  Most of the trials and a few finals will compete on
Friday with the shot put and finals of most running events being held on
Saturday.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**BALL AND ORJI LEAD THE WAY FOR MIT AT ALL NEW ENGLANDS**

**Team Ties for 9th With 28 Points**

February 24, 2006

At the NEICAAA Championships, hosted by Boston University, the Ball and Orji
show was again on and at its best.  Nate Ball went first, jumping clean
through 16-0 and clearing16-3 on his third attempt, but missing at 16-9,
winning the pole vault in the process.  Shortly after the vault, Uzoma Orji
launched six throws over 61' with his second best ever and season best of 64-7
3/4 winning the event by nearly six feet.

Qualifying for semi-finals on day two, David Blau and Omari Stephens ran 6.69
in the 55 dash and 8.10 in the 55HH respectively on the soft and slow infield.

Running but not qualifying for the finals, Eric Khatchadourian ran 15:22.47 in
the 5000, Fivos Constantinou and Jake Ruzevick running 4:18 and 4:22
respectively in the mile, Dan Rodgers ran 1:06.61 in the 500 and Blau ran
22.44 in the 200.

On day two, James Oleinik and Orji started things off in the shot put.
Oleinik, throwing the first flight, did better than the previous meet but
still was far from his best, throwing 45-6 1/2.  Orji, also throwing well off
his best, nevertheless, was second best in the field, throwing 55-11 to give
MIT eight more points and a total of 28 points for a tie in ninth place.

While the web results showed that Blau and Stephens had qualified for the
semi-finals in their respective events, both had been told when they finished
the trials that they had not qualified for the next round.  It turned out the
web results were not accurate.  However, due to the mixup, Blau was given the
opportunity to race.  Stephens was not able to be reached to tell him he was
in the semis and showed up at the track to late to get into the race.  Blau
ended up running 6.72 in the semis.

Last to compete for MIT was Joe Roy-Mayhew in the 3000.   Running a very
determined and competitive race, Roy-Mayhew ran to a personal best of 8:45.18,
moving into MIT's top 10 list for the 3000 meters.

Next week, MIT goes back to Boston University for the prestigious IC4A
championship.  Orji and Ball will be competing for the final time before
nationals.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**MIT BOWS TO WILLIAMS, FINISHING SECOND IN4-WAY MEET**

January 21, 2006

Despite the fact that this is the weakest MIT team in many years, remaining
undefeated seemed a real possibility for the Engineers as they took their 2-0
record to Williamstown to face Williams, RPI and Westfield State.  Showing no
fear of the heavily favored Ephs from Williams, MIT maintained the lead until
three events to go when the strength of Williams finally prevailed.  Williams
finished with 207 points to MIT's 192.  Both teams far outdistanced the larger
team from RPI, finishing with a score of 109 as well as the Owls from
Westfield State, finishing with 90 points.

Tech came ready to compete despite their small numbers, bringing only 29
competitors to the meet.  MIT was led by Omari Stephens with 19 points.  The
scoring in the four-way meet was 9 points for first and 7-6-5-4-3-2-1 for
second through eighth places.  In addition to winning the 55HH in a personal
best of 8.15 in the trials and 8.17 in the finals, the sophomore claimed
second in the pole vault at 13-5 3/4 and sixth in the triple jump with a  leap
of 40-2 3/4.

As expected, Uzoma Orji won his two events, remaining undefeated for the
season.  In the shot put, Orji threw 56-8 3/4 and followed that up with a
facility record of 62-3 3/4 in the weight throw.  In the shot put, Orji was
supported by freshman standout, James Oleinik, who threw a personal best of
47-10.

Nate Ball also remained undefeated, claiming first in the pole vault, clearing
a season best of 15-9.  Ball narrowly missed 16-3 1/2 on his final attempt.
The vault is MIT's strongest event this season, scoring 39 of a possible 55
points.  Supporting Ball and Stephens were Patrick Barragan and Nate Sharpe,
earning seventh and eighth places respectively.

The only other victory for MIT was run by Eric Khatchadourian, who took the
3000 from gun to finish line on the undersized, flat track.  Khatchadourian
ran 9:00.07 to win by a little less than one second.  MIT scored well in this
event, getting season bests from Joe Roy-Mayhew, Tyler Abrams and Chris Wong
as they placed third, sixth and eighth respectively.

Freshman stalwart, Jake Ruzevick, did not win any races, but ran an
outstanding triple, placing second each time as he ran indoor personal bests
in the mile (4:25.06) and the 800 (1:58.42) and anchored the 4x800 relay with
a 1:58.9 leg.  Fivos Constantinou, normally right with or just ahead of
Ruzevick, was unable to compete due to a sore hamstring.  Nevertheless,
Ruzevick was supported well by his teammates.  In the mile, Chris Bruce ran
4:31.82 to place fifth and Trevor Rundell ran 4:37.28 to finish seventh.  In
the 800, Dan Rodgers ran a season best of 2:01.17, earning third place and
Dave Reshef placed fifth in 2:04.66.  The 4x800 relay, running to win, and set
a freshman record, was poorly run despite Ruzevick's efforts.  The first three
legs, ran an abysmal 6:17, averaging over 2:05 each.

Also having outstanding performances in the jumps were; Anthony Teixeira,
jumping well and placing third in the triple jump with a leap of 41-11 1/2,
Chris Bateman in the long jump with a fifth place effort of 20-0 1/2 and
Obinna Anyanwu with a huge personal best in the long jump of 19-11 3/4.

On the track, outstanding performances were turned in by David Blau with a
6.64 in the 55 dash, Aron Walker, who ran 1:26.92 in the 600 and Alex Rothberg
in the 400 with a second place time of 53.86.

Next week, MIT travels north to Bowdoin College for a 1:00 start against
Bowdoin, Springfield and Tufts.  Tech will be looking forward to getting back
on a 200 meter track after two consecutive meets on small tracks.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**ENGINEERS DESIGN VICTORY OVER BATES AND COAST GUARD**

**Double Victories by Blau, Constantinou and Orji Lead Way**

January 14, 2006

MIT had not lost a regular season meet to Bates since 1983 and it has been
even longer since the Engineers have lost to the Coast Guard Academy.  The
meet took place at the Coast Guard Academy's 180 meter track in New London,
CT.  Bates gave MIT a difficult time through the early part of the meet before
MIT turned on the competitive spirit and pulled away, winning the meet 160 to
98 for Bates and 96 for Coast Guard.

The meet opened up with the field events (35lb. weight throw, long jump, high
jump, pole vault).  The first event to have the results in was the long jump.
The gravity must have been turned up in New London because no one seemed able
to jump very far and only Macbeth of Bates was able to come close to 20'.  MIT
secured  the 3-4-5 spots to stay close to Bates' 1-2 finish using the
7-5-4-3-2-1 scoring system.  The weight throw, won by Uzoma Orji with a toss
of 60-9 1/2, also went to Bates as their 2-3 finish outscored MIT's 1-6 finish
by one point.  The high jump, a miserable event for MIT the past two years,
favored Bates and Coast Guard.  MIT managed a sixth place from Chris Bateman
while Bates picked up nine points for second and third places.  MIT was behind
by a score of 30-18 at this point in the meet.  In the pole vault, MIT turned
things around a bit when Patrick Barragan made his season debut with a 11-5
3/4 effort, joining Omari Stephens and Nate Ball, who took the top two places
at 13-5 1/4 and 15-6 1/4 respectively.  Bates earned fourth and sixth places
as MIT gained 10 points on the Bobcats.

On the track, the first event was the mile run.  After an initial battle with
runners from Coast Guard, Fivos Constantinou, Jake Ruzevick and Eric
Khatchadourian took control and raced to a 1-2-3 victory with Bates settling
for a 4-5 finish.  Constantinou, who had given up in the middle of the race,
surged at the end to win in 4:25.01, just edging out Ruzevick.  MIT had now
pulled ahead 48 to 39.

In the 55HH, Stephens joined with Anthony Teixeira and Thad Wozniak to place
2-4-5 while Bates placed first only.  MIT continued to pull ahead, now leading
58 to 46.

The 400 and 600 meter events barely went in MIT's favor.  In the 400, Bates
ran away with a 1-2 finish while MIT suffered a poor outing, only placing 3-4.
However, in the 600, Dan Rodgers remained undefeated by winning in 1:26.34.
Dave Reshef supported Rodgers' effort with a fourth place finish out of the
slow section while Bates settled for third. The two events went to MIT 17-16,
giving MIT an overall lead 75 to 62.

The triple jump and shot put were finishing up about this time and also helped
MIT's cause.  Orji's expected victory, was made sweeter by the fact that he
threw his season best of 58-9 1/4 as he continues to lead the country for
Division III athletes.  Freshman, James Oleinik, continued to surprise as he
blasted a 47-3 3/4 put to claim second place and give MIT 12 more points.
Bates had to settle for five points and a 87 to 67 point deficit.  The triple
jump saw Teixeira come back at the end of the event to claim second place to
lead Bateman and Stephens, who placed fourth and fifth respectively.
Eventhough Drabo of Bates won the event, MIT outscored the Bobcats 10-8.

With the meet pretty well in hand, MIT's middle-distance runners went back to
the track.  Constantinou led from the gun in the 800 with a 2:02.20 victory.
Matt Bieniosek assisted with a third place.  The next event, the 1000, was won
by All America runner, Mike Flint of the Coast Guard Academy in 2:33.12 but
MIT managed 2-3-4, led by Ruzevick in 2:37.83.

David Blau won his two events quite easily.  In the 55 he won by .23 in 6.69.
Drawing lane six in the 200, Blau ran start to finish without ever seeing an
opponent, winning in 23.14.  Blau's closest competitor was teammate Wozniak in
23.93.

In the final individual event of the day, Trevor Rundell and Chris Bruce
allowed Jeremy Yandell to do most of the work before taking the lead with
about 800 meters to go.  Rundell pulled away in the final laps, running
9:02.38 to Bruce's 9:05.61.

While MIT looked horrible in the 4x400 relay and did not place, they put in a
valiant effort in the 4x800.  Bieniosek led off with a fine 2:03.6 leg to give
MIT the lead.  Yermie Cohen found his comfort zone and ran a fine 2:01.3 to
open up the lead.  John McGonagle, running the 800 for the first time, went
out well in 62, but faded in the end to give up the lead to Coast Guard.  Dave
Reshef made a great effort to make up the difference, bringing everyone at the
meet to their feet before running out of gas in the final 150, allowing Coast
Guard the event victory.

Next week, MIT will face a much stiffer challenge in defending New England
Division III champions, Williams College on their home track.  RPI will join
the mix and add another difficult challenge.  Westfield State, boasting very
few athletes will not likely be a factor in the team scoring even though they
have some impressive individuals.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**MIT RUNS TO PERSONAL BESTS IN TUNE-UP FOR DIVISION III CHAMPIONSHIP**

February 11, 2006

MIT Men's track and field team split their squad between the MIT Coed
Invitational and the Boston University Valentines Invitational, both non-
scoring meets, in order to match individuals up with the best opportunity to
compete and possibly qualify for upcoming championships.

Boston University's 200 meter banked track is one of the fastest tracks in the
country.  The open invitational format brings hundreds of teams from all over
the country in the pursuit of fast times.  Since many championships are going
the way of final sections on time and leaving the ordeal of qualifying rounds
as a thing of the past, except in the case of the sprints, it is advisable to
secure a fast performance in order to get into the fast sections of the
upcoming championships.  Thus teams travel from very far away in order to race
at facilities like Boston University.

Many of the division III teams from New England bring their entire team to
Boston, racing their championship level competitors at BU and bringing the
remainder of their team to MIT.  Ten women's teams and eight men's teams made
their way over to MIT.

Leading the way for MIT in the field was Nate Ball, who won the pole vault at
a height of 16-1, missing a new record height of 16-7.  Other vaulters who did
well were Patrick Barragan, who set a season best of 12-6 and Thad Wozniak
setting a personal best of 10-00.  On the track, Dan Rodgers set a freshman
record for MIT with a 1:06.04 performance in the 500.  MIT had many personal
bests at the two venues.  In the 200, David Blau ran a new personal best of
22.34 as he gradually gets closer to the one year old varsity record set by
Zach Traina.

Alex Rothberg ran a season and indoor best in the 400 with a 52.10
performance. In the 800, Fivos Constantinou ran a season best of 1:59.31.
Teammates David Reshef and Aron Walker also ran personal bests of 2:01.50 and
2:01.81 respectively.  Yermie Cohen ran a personal best of 2:35.31 in the 1000
meter run to improve his qualifying position in next week's New England
Division III Championship.

In the distance events, Chris Bruce and Trevor Rundell ran personal bests of
8:49.20 and 8:51.47 in the 3000 and Tyler Abrams ran 16:20.29 in the 5000.

Perhaps the most significant improvement of the day came from freshman John
McGonagle, who ran a 1:27.49 in the 600.

MIT has virtually no chance to dethrone Williams College next week in the New
England Division III Championship, but hopes to contend for a trophy, which
the top three teams receive.

RETURN TO INDOOR


