

**MORTON'S FOUR VICTORIES AND TWO PERSONAL BESTS LEAD ENGINEERS**

February 2, 2008

In the final scoring regular season meet, the MIT Engineers started February
on an even higher note than they left January with a resounding victory in a
5-way meet at Bowdoin College. Tech totaled 240 points to Tufts' 107,
Springfield's 86, Bowdoin's 70 and Colby's 51. The victory brought the season
record to 6-0 for a second straight undefeated season.

Leading the way for MIT was sophomore, Stephen Morton, who claimed four
victories, two of them personal bests and one of those provisionally
qualifying for the NCAA Division III Championship. Morton began the day with
the triple jump since the Bowdoin College track has a wider radius and cannot
fit the entire triple jump approach within the infield, so in order not to
interfere as much with the running events it is held before the long jump.
Morton waited until the finals to do much but he took over the lead with a
46-0 3/4 leap to claim victory, set a personal best and provisionally qualify
for nationals. His next event was the 55 meter dash. With his primary rival, a
sprinter from Springfield, home sick with flu like symptoms, Morton had little
difficulty in sprinting away with a 6.59 victory. Towards the end of the meet
he was back on the track in the 200. From the middle of the track, lane three,
Morton made up the stagger on everyone halfway through the second turn and won
going away in 22.59. Finally, in the long jump, on his final attempt, he took
the victory with another personal best of 22-8 1/2, a mark that moved him to
number four on the MIT all-time indoor list. His 40 points scored in the
10-8-6-4-2-1 scoring system gave him a team leading 82 points for the season.

Not having the day he hoped for, but nevertheless, a very good day for MIT,
Co-captain, Anthony Teixeira, supported Morton's effort with 19 points of his
own. Teixeira had two great performances in the 200 and long jump. It was
almost as if it took him a while to get his motor running as his earlier
events, the 55HH and triple jump, were below his usual standard even though he
placed fourth and sixth respectively in those events. In the 200 Teixeira
claimed second place in a personal best of 23.18. In the long jump he finished
strong, ending up with a season best of 21-5 1/4, which also tied his indoor
personal best.

After two weeks of not doing much hurdling and not having raced them at all
this season, Omari Stephens showed how much intensity matters as he blasted
his way to a personal best victory in 7.94 seconds. In the events on the oval,
MIT won the 600, 800, 3000, 5000 and both the 1600 and 3200 relays. In the
600, John Granata, not only won the 600 from start to finish but he set the
freshman record with his 1:23.63 effort, a mark that moves him to number three
all time for MIT. In the 800, Matt Bieniosek had a nice battle with Tufts
Billy Hale and won the battle with a time of 1:57.84.

In the distance events, MIT showed their dominance and depth. In the 3000,
Yermie Cohen took control of the race after 800 meters, began throwing in 68
and 69 second quarters to run away from everyone but teammate Brian Jacokes.
Cohen's winning time of 8:43.73 put in him in the top 10 list all-time for
MIT. Jacokes was close behind in 8:45.93 for a great personal best. MIT also
claimed third and fifth performances from Chris Wong and Richard Prevost. In
the 5000, Hemagiri Arumugam uncharacteristically ran from the front, running
mile splits of 4:56, 4:55 and 5:03 to finish in a season best of 15:31.57.
Supporting his effort with a personal best was freshman Gihan Amarasiriwardena
in 15:38.36.

In the relays, MIT's primary objectives were to see how fast the 1600 relay
could run on a flat track against good competition and to run a sub 8:05 in
the 3200 relay in order to get themselves in the fast section of the New
England Division III Championship in three weeks. Objective number one was
handled by Stephen Oney, the only 400 runner on the relay, as he ran a 51.4 to
give Bieniosek the lead. Bieniosek got blown away in the first 200 by Tufts
but came back to take a healthy lead with his 51.2 split. Dave Reshef was
unable to hold the lead but kept it very close with his 52.4 split. Granata
ran a 24.1 first 200 and still lost about five meters to the Tufts runner.
However, his determination won out as he finished with a 50.5 anchor leg to
win the event in 3:25.56. In the 3200 relay, Peter Mulligan began the task at
hand hoping to match his 2:01.93 open 800. However, he was only able to manage
a 2:03 effort, which put MIT at a significant disadvantage to Tufts and Colby.
Bill Phipps made up the difference in short order with his 58 first 400.
Phipps continued to expand the lead, running 1:59. Kevin Kleinguetl expanded
the lead to the point of no contention with his second 1:59 of the day. Anchor
Paul Welle, put the race away with a 2:01 to meet the goal with an overall
time of 8:02.93.

In the pole vault, Greg Tao won with a 14-2 3/4 clearance. Nate Sharpe vaulted
to a personal best of 13-3 and freshman Travis Hery cleared 12-3 1/4. Stephens
looked awesome in warmups but no-heighted when it came time to vault.

Next week it is back to Boston University for the Valentine's Invitational on
Saturday with events beginning at 11:00.

RETURN TO INDOOR







**ONEY PULLS OUT VICTORY FOR VARSITY**

**Morton Sets Two Meet Records in Sprints**

January 12, 2008

The 34th annual Alumni meet was pretty even throughout the day with each team
taking their turn with the lead. Going into the 4x200 relay, the final event,
the varsity was up by four points. Winner take all, and the alumni were
certain they had the victory once it was learned that sprinting phenom,
Stephen Morton, had been pulled from the relay. The varsity squad was not to
be shaken by the confidence of the alums even though their lineup was changing
by the minute as another member honestly stated his legs were still fatigued
from the 200. Behind from the start and still in the rear going into the final
leg, Stephen Oney was determined to set things right. Oney tried to pass on
the bach stretch but was unable to do so. Getting hung up on the curve did not
deter Oney as he pushed even harder from lane two. Finally as they hit the
home straight Oney pulled ahead and despite his failing form he maintains his
lead through the finish line to pull out the 70-61 victory.

The meet began at 9:00 in the morning with the pentathlon. Ravi Sastry '99 and
Bill Singhose '90 represented the "Has Beens". Sastry took the lead in the
55HH and never looked back, winning easily with 2726 points, 300 points ahead
of the varsity's Nick Leonard. With a 5-4 lead going into the regular meet,
Uzoma Orji '06, and Todd Chamoy '98, went 1-2 in the weight throw to expand
the lead to 13-5. The long jump was going on at the same time and Morton gave
the varsity a boost with a 21-6 1/4 victory despite a short approach and an
outstanding jump of 21-2 1/2 by Thad Wozniak '06.

With his team behind by a score of 17-10, Jake Ruzevick was determined to
finally defeat Ben Schmeckpeper '05, in a race, at any distance. Ruzevick took
the lead, running a very conservative pace coming through quarter splits of 67
and 2:13. Just before the 800 mark, Johannes Schneider took the lead to make
the pace a little more honest. Failing to pick the pace up and coming through
the 1200 in 3:20, Ruzevick took the lead on the back stretch and was
immediately followed by Schmeckpeper, Fivos Constantinou '06, and freshman,
Paul Welle. Ruzevick ran a 62 final 400 to finish in 4:22.71, a new meet
record. Schmeckpeper held off a fast closing Welle for second place. The 6-3
event score moved the varsity closer at 20-16, still in favor of the alums.

The 55HH brought another meet record as Rick Rajter '03, ran a personal best
of 7.77 to easily win ahead of Anthony Teixeira (8.05) and Dave Fernholz
(8.40). At this same time the alumni were sweeping the high jump as the
varsity had no entries. Rajter won this event also with he and teammate Craig
Mielcarz '03, just jumping high enough to win at 6' 2". Now the lead was up to
34-20.

With Orji throwing the shot the varsity had little to no shot of winning the
event, but James Oleinik and Tony McDonald did the next best thing by getting
second and third to limit the damage. The same thing happened in the pole
vault with Nate Ball '05, setting a meet record in winning the vault at 16-0
3/4. The expanded lead was now 44-28. Back on the track things slowly began to
turn towards the varsity. In the 400, Oney got the break over Matt Lehman '04,
and held the lead for the victory. Morton was back to work in the 55 and he
silenced the trash talking alums with a humbling 6.55 meet record and personal
best. The next event, the 800, balanced the results of the high jump as
Ruzevick led a sweep, running 1:59.96 for the victory. The varsity had closed
the score to 51-48, still in favor of the alumni.

The 200 was a chance for Zach Traina '05, and David Blau '06, to get back at
Stephen Morton. Morton took one triple jump before going to the line, which
was good enough for third place behind teammate, freshman, Mattias Flander who
jumped an amazing 45-0 1/4 on a short approach. Morton tore around the track
in a meet record 22.58, leaving Traina and Blau to look back as they knew they
were not catching Morton (Traina looking back to make sure no one was going to
catch him and Blau to taunt fourth place Ulzie Rea).

The 5000 was the next to last event and unless the varsity were to get 1-2 in
the event then the meet would come down to the relay. Chris Wong took the lead
for the varsity, keeping the pace somewhat honest at 75 for the first 400.
Schmeckpeper and Yermie Cohen passed him after the 800 mark, which had picked
up to 2:29. Cohen followed Schmeckpeper through a moderate pace through 1 3/4
miles. Sensing he could take the lead and hold it, Cohen started throwing down
72s for the next 800 and finished with a :33 final 200 to win in 15:18.70.
Schmeckpeper fought off Brian Jacokes for second place.

Also competing for the alumni were the following: Ned Rich '72 and Gary Wilkes
'74, Chris Bateman '07 (2nd in triple jump, 3rd long jump and high jump),
Ethan Crain '96, Craig Wildman '03, Terry McNatt '87, Josh Feldman '97, David
Moyle '94, Josh Chartier '06, Eric Khatchadourian '06, Bob Collins '82 and
Kevin DiGenova '07. Running the open mile was Bob Walmsley '84 and in
attendance was Steve Stoddard, nursing a knee injury.

Next week, MIT begins facing intercollegiate competition when they face Bates
and Colby at home on Saturday at noon.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**MIT BEGINS REGULAR SEASON 2-0 BEHIND MORTON'S VICTORIES**

January 19, 2008

The MIT Engineers did not enter their athletes with questionable injuries,
used the meet to get some performances from some of their runners in alternate
events and still ran away with a comfortable victory with 211 points to 90 for
Bates College and 42 for Colby College in this early season tri meet. With
Stephen Morton leading the way with three victories, MIT won 13 of 17 events
and had three top 10 performances to start the season off 2-0.

The meet did not start favorably for MIT as the first event was the 35 lb.
weight throw and Bates is exceptionally talented in that event. Bates earned
four of the top five places with James Oleinik sneaking in for a sixth place,
good for one point in the 7-5-4-3-2-1 scoring format. Fortunately the
Engineers did not waste any time in making up most of those points by going
1-2-3 in the pole vault with Greg Tao and Patrick Barragan leading the way
with vaults of 13-5 1/4, a new personal best for Barragan.

The mile run being the first running final and Tech set the trend with Yermie
Cohen winning in 4:23.63 but also garnering second, third and fifth to pull
ahead in the meet for the first time and never look back. Despite Omari
Stephens not vaulting or hurdling, MIT still collected first and second place
in the 55HH with Anthony Teixeira getting a personal best of 7.98 for the
victory.

Back in the infield, the long jumpers claimed 1-2-5-6 with Morton earning one
of his three victories, moving into MIT's top 10 indoor performances with his
22-3 effort. The 400 and 600 meter runs were on the track and MIT took
advantage of their quality and depth by going 1-2-3 in the 400, led by a
season best of 52.82 by Ulzie Rea and 1-2-3-4 in the 600 led by freshman John
Granata's top 10 performance of 1:24.86.

Morton sprinted to his second victory with a 6.58 performance in the 55 dash
about the same time Oleinik was throwing his season best of 48-2 in the shot
put for a second place. MIT suffered their only event loss on the track in the
800 meter run although led by Matt Bieniosek they earned second, fifth and
sixth places. In the next event, the 1000, MIT strength was obvious as Cohen
earned his second victory in 2:36.42 in leading Tech to a 1-2-4-5-6 finish.

MIT earned their only event sweep (first through sixth) in the triple jump
with Mattias Flander winning for the second week in a row with a 43-7 1/4
jump. The 22 point perfect score, despite Stephens and Anyanwu not jumping,
for the event added insult to injury as MIT pushed the lead to over 100
points.

Morton earned his third victory in the 200 with a 22.76. He was supported with
Teixeira's second place in yet another top 10 performance of 23.23. The final
event before the relays was the 3000. Even though they have not done any track
workouts, Jake Ruzevick wanted to go for a fast 3000 time. He could not hold
his early pace but still earned the victory with a 8:44.43 performance. MIT
also place second, third and fourth in the 15 lap event.

MIT's entry in the 4x400 was primarily made up of 800 runners. Even though the
faster Bates runners would go out hard and lead the first 200 the MIT runners
would pass them in the second 200. This happened through the first three legs
but when Bieniosek got the baton his 24.9, 52.0 leg allowed him to lead start
to finish for a 3:33.13 victory.

The final event was the 4x800 relay. MIT was attempting an early season attack
on the freshman record but despite an excellent setup by first leg Paul Welle
of 2:01.0, Shawn Conrad, Kevin Kleinguetl and John Granata were unable to hold
the pace necessary to break the 1992 record of 8:05.13.

Next week, MIT goes across the river to Boston University to run in the
Terrier Classic, a very large non-scoring invitational where some of the best
runners in the country from all divisions come to compete.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**STEPHEN MORTON QUALIFIES FOR NCAA'S IN LONG AND TRIPLE**

February 16, 2008

Personal bests and top-10 performances were the rule rather than the exception
at MIT's Coed Invitational on Saturday. The majority of Tech's middle-distance
and distance runners took the weekend off from racing in order to rest up for
the New England Division III Championship next weekend. Similarly, the field
event athletes, hurdlers and long sprinters tried to put everything together
in preparation for those same championships. Leading the way was Stephen
Morton. The sophomore jumped to personal bests in both the long jump and
triple jump.

In the long jump, Morton was getting ready to go over to the 200 and asked if
he had time to take his last jump. He did and what a jump it was: 23-1 3/4 to
move into second place on the all-time MIT indoor list and provisionally
qualified for the NCAA Division III Championship. In the triple jump, there
were five jumpers over 45' going into the finals with Morton and James Marcy
from Tufts going back and forth for the lead throughout the trials. On
Morton's fourth jump he landed just a few feet from the back of the pit, a
jump certainly in the 48' range but fouled by about an inch. The same thing
happened on his fifth jump as he was an inch out of first place. On his final
attempt he put it together, leaping 47-1 1/2 to move into third place on the
all-time MIT list and another NCAA qualifying performance. Anthony Teixeira
also made it into the all-time top 10 list with his 45-5 leap for fourth
place. Just behind Tex, freshman Mattias Flander jumped to a personal best of
45-2 1/2.

Dave Reshef earned the other top 10 all-time list, this one in the 600. Dave's
1:24.45 earned him a number seven showing on that all-time list. Also in the
600, Bill Phipps ran to a second place in 1:25.38 and Peter Mulligan ran a
personal best of 1:28.20. There were many other personal and season bests
achieved on this day. Omari Stephens hurdled to a 7.93 personal best and then
vaulted a season best of 14-2 3/4. Oliver Yeh leaped 40-8 1/4 for a personal
best in the triple jump with 40-8 1/4. In the weight throw Adam Mustafa and
Mitchell Kelley threw personal bests of 39-5 and 32-3 respectively. Tony
McDonald threw a personal best in the shot put with a put of 40-11 1/2. On the
track, John Granata stepped down to the 400 for a little speed and won with a
best of 51.55. In the 800, Kevin Kleinguetl ran an indoor personal best of
1:58.42 for the victory. Also running a personal best was Richard Prevost with
a 2:00.81, an outstanding performance for the distance runner. Last but not
least, Jack Bourbonnais ran 8:56.28 in the 3000 for a personal best and New
England Division III qualifying performance.

Next week MIT travels to Tufts University for the New England Division III
Championship. MIT has not won the championship since 2003 but is poised to
have a run at the title this year.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**STEPHENS AND MORTON MAKE NCAA MARKS AT ECAC CHAMPIONSHIP**

March 7-8, 2008

In a startling contrast to last week at the All New England Championship but
much like the superb team display at the New England Division III Championship
two weeks ago, Omari Stephens and Stephen Morton took control of their own
destiny for this season, setting personal bests in their respective events. At
the ECAC Division III Championship held at Harvard University, the pole vault
was the first event. Patrick Barragan easily cleared opening height at 13-5
1/4 as did Greg Tao. At 13-11 1/4, Barragan was unable to match his personal
best but Tao cleared again. At 14-5 1/ 4 both Tao and Stephens cleared, which
put both in scoring position. Tao was unable to clear a season best at 14-11
but Stephens cleared easily as he also did at 15-5 and 15-9, which
provisionally qualified him for the NCAA Division III Championship. At 16-0
3/4 Stephens again made the height, virtually guaranteeing him a spot among
the nations elite next weekend at Ohio Northern University. Attempting the
meet record at 16-3 3/4, he was unable to clear the height although he had a
couple of fine attempts.

In the triple jump, Mattias Flander, Anthony Teixeira and Morton took on an
impressive field. Flander jumped 44-6 3/4, which only netted him 15th place.
Teixeira leaped 44-11 1/2 for 10th place. Morton, floundering in seventh place
coming into his final jump, put together his best jump of the season, a 47-11
effort that netted him second place and an MIT varsity record. This also moved
him up to number five on the NCAA performance list.

On Saturday, Morton was not quite ready for the 9:00 A.M. start for the long
jump. He had a difficult time with his approach, fouling some pretty good
jumps in the process. Morton did not place even though he jumped 21-10.

John Granata was entered across town in the IC4A 800 being held at Boston
University. It had been a long season for the freshman, which had been
magnified by the frustrating races each weekend. Starting off with a good
first 300 when he went to go around a competitor and move up to the front, the
competitor also moved, forcing Granata to back off and it was then plain to
see the mental exhaustion as he struggled to continue to race, finishing in
1:57.38

The freshman 4x880 relay team of Richard Prevost, Paul Welle, Shawn Conrad and
Kevin Kleinguetl wanted to go for the MIT freshman record of 8:05.13 set back
in 1992, also at Harvard. Prevost, primarily a distance runner, led off with a
fine 1:59.2 and handed the baton to Welle in third place. Even though the
handoff was a bit sloppy, Welle got out well, took the lead halfway through
and held on to first place, running an outstanding 1:57.6. Conrad held onto
the lead for a while but could not stay with the top two runners in the final
200, handing off to Kleinguetl in a distant third despite running 2:01.5.
Kleinguetl could not close the gap despite a 57.4 first 400 and finished with
a 1:58.8 for a new freshman record of 7:57.23.

Even though MIT did not bring very many of those who qualified, prefering to
have individuals prepare for the upcoming outdoor season, they still placed
eighth with 25 points.

Next week Stephens and Morton will travel to Ohio Northern University in Ada,
OH to compete in the NCAA Division III Championship. A live webcast will be
taking place and can be viewed by starting at
http://www.onusports.com/NCAATrack08/index.html. If Morton gets into the long
jump he will compete at 1:00 on Friday afternoon and 10:00 Saturday morning in
the triple. Stephens will compete in the pole vault at 5:00 on Friday.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**Morton and Stephens Earn All America Honors**

March 14-15, 2008

The first event for MIT at the 2008 NCAA Division III Indoor Track and Field
Championship hosted by Ohio Northern University in Ada, Ohio, was the long
jump. There were 14 jumpers and only nine were going to make the final round.
Morton jumped 6.85 meters (22-5) on his first attempt and did not improve that
jump in the trials. He was fourth out of sevn in the first flight and had to
sit through the second flight, hoping his mark would beat two jumpers. As it
turned out he was tied for eighth with the jumper from SUNY Geneseo, both of
whom were the last seeds in the field. In the finals Morton improved his mark
first to 6.90 and then 6.95 (22-9) to place eighth overall, earning his first
All America award at his first NCAA Championship event. The winning jump of
23-11 3/4 was made by Beresford Brown of Moravian College.

Later in the afternoon, Omari Stephens took the field in the pole vault.
Seeded eighth going in with a mark of 4.90 meters (16-0 3/4) Stephens cleared
the opening height of 15-3 even though he hit the cross bar on the way over.
Four jumpers no-heighted at that first height. At 15-9, Stephens cleared on
his second attempt, virtually displacing the bar with his leg and then
settling it back on with his chest for a remarkable clear. At 16-1 3/4,
Stephens made a great attempt on his third effort but was unable to clear the
height. Seven individuals cleared the height with the season's best jumper
still not coming in. At the next height, 16-5 1/2, Bina of North Central came
in but also no-heighted, giving Stephens an unexpected eighth place and his
first All America honor. The winning vault was made by Jonny Henkins of
Monmouth College at 16-9 1/2.

On Saturday, Morton was back on stage in the triple jump. Acombination of
jumping at 10:00 A.M. and on the second day of a two day competition put the
sophomore in unchartered territory and it showed as he failed to make finals
by .02cm. with a jump of 46-0.

MIT tied at 56th place with two points. This marks the end of a very
successful season for the Engineers. Next on their agenda is a week of hard
training on their spring trip to California, spending time in Claremont and
competing in San Diego at Point Loma Nazarene University on March 29.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**GREAT PERFORMANCES, MISSED OPPORTUNITIES EQUAL THIRD PLACE IN NEW ENGLAND
DIVISION III CHAMPIONSHIP**

February 23, 2008

MIT lived up to their seed, placing third among the 25 scoring teams with 101
points in the New England Division III Championship hosted by Tufts
University. Seeded third behind Tufts and Williams College, the Engineers from
MIT thought if everything went just right they would be able to surpass their
seed and defeat one or both teams seeded ahead of them. There was a lot of
room to move up as many of MIT's points were from low seeds while neither
Tufts nor Williams had as many opportunities to move up. Tufts set the table
in the first event, the pentathlon, contested on Friday. An event in which
freshman, Nick Leonard scored a personal best 2912 points but was only able to
manage 11th place. Seeded to score 11 points, the Jumbos scored 20 in an
impressive performance.

Being 20 points down going into the regular meet was somewhat expected but the
recent bad news that Tech's top two middle-distance runners, Yermie Cohen and
Jake Ruzevick, were both injured made the task a bit daunting if anyone were
to stop and think about it. Fortunately, the team competed and tried to see
how they could compete better instead of thinking of what could go wrong. The
first such opportunity to make up some points came in the long jump. While
super soph, Stephen Morton was seeded first, Anthony Teixeira was seeded 10th.
With only eight places scoring, he needed to have a great jump. Teixeira
jumped 21-2 early to get himself into the finals and in seventh place. Morton
could not put a winning jump together and going into the finals was still in
second place. After the first jump in the finals he had to go over and run the
trials in the 200. After successfully qualifying for the finals with a 22.69
he was to late to get his second jump in the finals. Getting his breath,
Morton finally put together a decent jump, leaping 22-5 3/4 to win the event.
The plus two points was a small dent but it was a start.

Prior to Morton's 200 trial, Teixeira had run over to get his 55HH trial in.
Seeded eighth, Teixeira got a much needed great start to run a personal best
of 7.92, the third fastest time in the trials. Unfortunately, Omari Stephens,
who had been seeded seventh, inherited Teixeira's usual slow start and could
not make up the difference, missing the finals by two spots. In the finals,
Teixeira placed fourth with a 7.87, a time that breaks into the top ten on the
all-time MIT list. Not only did his five points give MIT another plus two over
their seeds but Tufts scored two less than their seeds.

The pole vault was underway and Stephens was hoping to make up for his hurdle
faux pas. All four MIT vaulters (Stephens, Greg Tao, Patrick Barragan, Nate
Sharpe) cleared their opening vaults and going into 13'11 1/4, Stephens,
Barragan and Tao were still alive. Tao was not vaulting with his usual
expertise and could not make the height. He was clean through the earlier
heights and had eighth place sewed up. Barragan made the height, personal
best, as did Stephens. At 14'5 1/4 only Stephens and one other vaulter made
the height. Barragan was awarded sixth place based on misses. Stephen's nailed
14-11 on his first attempt, winning the vault. MIT made up a huge six points
over their seed, but the single Tufts' vaulter made up five points with his
third place finish, nearly negating the Engineer's advantage.

The mile was the first final in the running events, and Yermie Cohen was going
to give it a try. Seeded fifth with his 4:15 time earned on BU's banked track,
Cohen was determined to score points for his team. Despite the pain, he stayed
with the pack through the first half of the race. As the pace picked up Cohen
was unable to respond but did close well, running 4:18.28 for seventh place.

In the 400, Stephen Oney was seeded seventh. Even though he ran a flat track
personal best of 51.13 it was only good for eighth place. John Granata and
Dave Reshef were in the 600 with Granata seeded sixth. Reshef ran a personal
best of 1:24.24, seventh on the all-time MIT list, but it was not good enough
to place. Granata showed his inexperience, getting boxed in twice and unable
to find a clear lane even at the finish, settled for a fifth place in 1:22.91,
good for second on the all-time MIT list. The 600 plus one point made up for
the 400 loss of one point.

Matt Bieniosek was seeded sixth in the 800 but the remnants of his cold and
fever took their toll as he struggled in the final 400. Fortunately, Bill
Phipps, seeded 10th, stepped up and ran a personal best of 1:57.13 out of the
slow section to secure sixth place, giving MIT what they were seeded to get.
Without Cohen in the 1000, who was the fifth seed, it was up to freshman Kevin
Kleinguetl to make up the points. The pressure seemed a little much for
Kleinguetl as he was unable to race with the leaders and did not place.

The end of the meet was where MIT was hoping to make up their points and James
Oleinik got things going in the shot put. Seeded fifth, Oleinik threw well,
putting the shot 48-01 1/4 for fourth. To place any higher he would have had
to throw over 50'.

Back on the track, Morton was in the fast section of the 200 final. Running a
flat track personal best, Morton raced to a 22.41 second place finish. He then
raced over to the triple jump to start his quest to earn his number one seed.
The jumpers were showing signs of the physical and emotional fatigue as it
took them awhile to get their best jumps in. Ideally, Morton would have gotten
off a 47' leap on his first attempt and then passed each attempt unless
someone passed him. This was not the case as it took him until his third
attempt to take the lead with a nice jump of 46'. He was prepared to now get
ready for his leadoff leg in the 4x400, a move necessary to put MIT in the
lead in the relay and go for the win. Unfortunately, Dan Marcy of Tufts put
the pressure on by jumping 46-11 to take the lead on his first attempt in the
finals. Morton was unable to pass him on either of his first two attempts in
the finals although he did move within 10 cm. With the second section of the
4x400 already racing, Morton was waiting for his final attempt. As the best
jumper in the trials, Morton was the final jumper. By the time he jumped he
was about five minutes from having to lead off the relay and MIT had no one
else available to take his spot. Shutting all of this out, Morton leaped to a
personal best of 47-01 3/4 to snatch another victory.

Prior to the relays, MIT attempted to score 20 points out of the two distance
events (3000 and 5000 meter runs) even though they were only seeded to score
13. Joe Roy-Mayhew took the lead just after the 1700 meter mark, jumping the
pace from 71 second 400s to 67 seconds per 400. This strung out the field but
Roy-Mayhew was not quite able to hold the lead, dropping to a well earned
8:42.55 third place. Gihan Amarasiriwardena placed sixth with a 8:50.14, an
outstanding race for the freshman. Chris Wong ran a similar strategy to Roy-
Mayhew in the 5000. Running in the back for much of the race, Wong took the
lead with less than 800 to go throwing down a 71 400 and then a 31 final 200
to place second in a personal best of 15:08.38. Running a personal best
himself, Brian Jacokes earned seventh place with a 15:15.48. The 19 points
earned in the two events far exceeded their seeds and almost met their goal.

In the distance medley relay, without Cohen and Ruzevick available for the
4x800, Nick Leonard had to come back from the pentathlon to run the 400 leg.
Kleinguetl did not race at the front as expected but still managed a 3:13
leadoff 1200 leg, putting MIT far off the lead in fifth place. Leonard managed
to hold the team's position with his 53 400. Shawn Conrad ran an outstanding
2:00 800 leg, his best this season by three seconds. Paul Welle, determined to
get MIT the victory, went out in an ill-advised 60 for the first 400 and 2:05
at the 800, bringing him within 30 meters of the lead and into third place.
Feeling the effects of the fast early pace, Welle slowed, running 4:22 for the
1600, but managed to hold onto third place in a freshman relay record of
10:29.65. By comparison, MIT had won the year before with a 10:32.

Despite the hope of Morton giving MIT the lead in the 4x400 to avoid the
difficulties and inefficiency of handing off behind or in the middle of a
group of teams, Morton was unable to disassociate himself from the emotions of
the triple jump win and physical fatigue from the long day, running only 52.7
for the leadoff leg. Oney ran a find leg of 51.2, followed by Bieniosek's 51.5
to keep MIT in the thick of the race. Granata anchored with an excellent 50.0
to bring MIT to fourth place, less than two seconds from the victory.

Going into the final event, the 4x800 relay, MIT was one point behind
Williams, 97 to 98 and Tufts had the meet locked up with 117 points. Reshef
led off for MIT, went out a little fast in 27 for the first 200 but looked
good through 600 meters in 1:28 before falling off a little in the final 200,
nevertheless running a fine 1:59.8 leadoff. Freshman, Richard Prevost ran a
superb leg and a huge personal best of 1:58.7 to put MIT in a great position
to beat Williams. Peter Mulligan ran his best but his 2:00.9 allowed Williams
to gain an advantage on the final lap. Phipps went out in 28 and closed the
gap on the Williams runner, taking the lead coming through a 58.3 400. Holding
the lead over Williams, Phipps ran 1:27.8 through 600 but was not able to
respond to the kick of the Williams runner, finishing in 1:58.9 for a fifth
place 7:58.78 performance.

MIT will graduate 31 individual points after this season as well as a couple
of relay legs. Nevertheless the team is young and will hope to improve on this
year's performance when MIT hosts this championship in 2009. Next on the
schedule for Tech is the all division New England Championship at Boston
University on February 29-March 1.

RETURN TO INDOOR






**MIT Men's Track and Field Team Takes Weekend Off**

February 29 - March 1

After last weekend's New England Division III Championship many MIT track and
field athletes began working towards the outdoor season while a few; who were
seniors hoping for a career best, those trying to continue to improve and a
couple trying to qualify for the NCAA Championship, competed at the NEICAAA
(New England Intercollegiate Amateur Athletic Association) All Division New
England Championship hosted by Boston University. As it turned out, many of
those who competed for MIT took the weekend off as well. The physical and
emotional fatigue lingering after such an all out effort left most results
short of outstanding as no MIT men's track and field athlete set a season or
personal best.

The pole vaulters started things off for Tech. At the opening height, 14' 3",
Omari Stephens cleared but Greg Tao, still suffering from a severe cold no
heighted. Stephens cleared 14' 9" as well but was unable to have a successful
vault at 15' 3", a height that placed second through seventh place.

In the 55HH, Anthony Teixeira ran 7.94 in the trials to advance to Saturday's
finals. Stephens, rushing over from the vault, did not get a fast start,
decelerated over two hurdles and only managed a 8.09.

Back on the oval, Stephen Oney could not keep up his string of personal bests,
running 51.20 in the 400. Right after Oney finished, John Granata and Matt
Bieniosek took to the track in the 800. Granata was hoping for an NCAA
qualifying performance while Bieniosek wanted atonement for last week and to
make finals. Both were in the last heat. Normally the heats are run
strategically, just hoping to be one of the top two or the next two fastest to
make the Saturday final. This was not the case in their section. The lead
runner went out in splits of 25, 51 and 1:17 en route to a 1:48 final time.
Granata, determined to run a fast time, went out trying to keep up and paid
the price, getting nipped at the line for the second qualifying spot even
though he ran 1:55.33. Bieniosek struggled for the second straight weekend,
running 1:58.18.

On Saturday, the triple jumpers got things started and all had difficulty
getting accustomed to the wooden base runway with so much bounce. Stephen
Morton, only competing in the triple after such a fatiguing weekend the
previous week, fouled every attempt. Teixeira could not hit the board, but he
did manage a 43- . Mattias Flander had the same difficulty, only jumping.
Teixeira's day was not a total loss, in the 55HH semis he ran 8.89, just .02
off his personal best and by far the fastest he had run at Boston University.

Paul Welle and Gihan Amarasiriwardena were on the oval in the mile and 3000
meter races respectively. Welle felt fatigued from the outset, only able to
run 4:30.91, no where near his 4:21 best. Amarasiriwardena competed well but
was unable to stay aggressive in the latter parts of the race as his quarter
pace slowed from 70's where he ran 4:42 for the 1600 to 73's to finish in
8:54.41.

The final event for the men was the 3200 relay. Granata was to lead off to
give MIT the chance to keep up with the leaders in the fast section. Granata
should adopt the nickname Murphy given all the the misfortune he has been
having the past two weeks. His luck did not change as just after the 300 mark
as he was looking very strong his right hand came back, hitting the chest of
the runner behind him, knocking it out of his hand. By the time Granata
managed to pick up the baton the pack was forty meters ahead. The team, made
up of Bieniosek, Richard Prevost and Kevin Kleinguetl, never caught up,
running too fast in the first 200 and tiring in the final 200. The weekend
just was not meant to be for MIT Track and Field.

Next week, a select few will go to Harvard University to compete in the ECAC
Division III Championship while Granata will go back to Boston University to
try one final time to qualify for nationals in the 800 in the prestigious IC4A
Championship.

RETURN TO INDOOR






**MIT's DMR Leads Many Key Performances at Terrier Classic**

January 25-26, 2008

MIT's Track and Field team took a break from the scoring meets to go to the
Terrier Classic at Boston University's phenomenal facility. The all day meet
(11:00-7:00), with an average of 100+ entries per event and talent ranging
from very modest local talent to high level club runners from around the
country and from universities as far away as Duke, saw many impressive
performances including a national qualifying performance from MIT with their
10:03.3 distance medley relay.

MIT did not compete most of their jumpers and none of their throwers,
preferring to get in additional practices. Most of those they did compete
performed very well. On Friday evening, the only men's event was the distance
medley relay. MIT's hopes were to qualify for the NCAA Division III
Championships in March but with two of the participants (Yermie Cohen, running
the 1200 leg and Jake Ruzevick, running the 1600) not having done any track
workouts there was a certain level unknown expectation. Apparently, those
concerns did not enter the minds of those on the relay team. Cohen opened
things up with a stunning 3:03.4 1200 leg, a very big personal best, to put
MIT in second place and on track to meet their goal. Running the 400, Stephen
Morton, primarily a jumper/sprinter running only his second collegiate 400,
went out a little fast but still delivered a 49.2 performance to give MIT the
lead. Matt Bieniosek took the baton, went out in a blazing 27.0 first 200 and
brought the baton home in 1:56.7 and in second place behind Fordham
University. Ruzevick ran a gutsy 4:14.0 leg, pulling up to Fordham and Duke,
which had passed him earlier in the leg, with 200 to go but could not match
their finishing kick. MIT's 10:03.3 met the provisional time for NCAA
qualifying and will have to wait to see if it holds up to get them to the
championship. There is hope that another attempt later in the season will
produce even better results.

On Saturday, many personal bests were put up by Tech. In the high hurdles,
Dave Fernholz made his first final when he hurdled to a personal best of 8.22
just .18 behind teammate Anthony Teixeira. Stephen Oney stepped on the track
in the 400 and dropped a second off of his indoor best by running 51.48. The
good news continued for the Engineers in the 500 where in separate sections
Matt Bieniosek and Dave Reshef ran identical 1:07.15 times.

Bill Phipps led the way for MIT in the 800. Fighting off contact and getting
boxed in, Phipps ran a personal best 1:57.67. Peter Mulligan ran to a season
best 2:02.03 to show he is getting ready for the end of his senior season. In
the 1000, freshman Kevin Kleinguetl had his best race of the year, running a
well paced 2:33.44 to post the fastest time for MIT so far this season. Shawn
Conrad ran his season best as well, running 2:38.22.

Cohen came back in the mile hoping he had recovered from the dmr the night
before. Cohen ran a strong evenly pace first 1200, coming through in 3:10 but
could not hold on as his faded slightly, finishing in 4:16.98, a personal
indoor best. Paul Welle continued his excellent racing, but made some tactical
errors, allowing himself to get boxed in a couple of times and eventually
tripped from behind in the final lap to lose significant time. Nevertheless,
Welle, who had fought off the effects of food poisoning earlier in the week,
finished with a personal best 4:22.14.

Stephen Morton also came back to perform on Saturday. In the long jump he
placed third with a 22-3 performance and then got on the track and despite
drawing the disadvantageous lane 2, he ran a season best of 22.45. It was
tempting to bring Morton back for the 4x400 but knowing he has a lot of events
left in this competitive season, he was relegated to cheering as Oney,
Bieniosek, Reshef and the still ailing, John Granata put their best foot
forward. Oney led things off with a phenomenal opening 400 of 50.6. Bieniosek,
not to be outdone, pushed through a 50.9 leg. Reshef ran an excellent leg,
setting up Granata with a 51.1 performance. Granata, sick from a bad cold all
week, performed poorly in the 800 earlier, letting the illness affect him
mentally and taking him out of the race. With the excitement of the relay and
knowing his teammates were counting on him, he bypassed the thinking part and
just raced, producing a very fine 50.2 anchor to give the team an outstanding
3:22.81.

With the meet nearing its end, only the two distance events remained. Joe Roy-
Mayhew was the the lone MIT representative in the 3000. Hoping the pace would
be quick, Roy-Mayhew was disappointed with the 71 second opening 400. Roy-
Mayhew immediately took charge, running 68s for the rest of the race to finish
in a personal best 8:37.35 and lower his own seventh best all-time MIT
performance.

In the 5000, Ruzevick came back in what was probably an ill-advised attempt to
qualify for nationals. Ruzevick was not in the race from the start, running
hard but not really racing en route to a 15:01.36. Chris Wong, in section two,
seemed to give up early in the race, going from first to last in the first
mile. As the individuals in front of him began to fatigue, Wong began to run
more aggressively, running the final 600 in 1:43 to race to a personal best of
15:10.45. Another personal best was had by Brian Jacokes in section three. His
job was to win his section and he made every effort to make that happen.
Running very even pace, coming through mile splits of 4:58, 4:57, 4:53 before
finishing with a 33 final 200 only to lose in the final straight. However his
15:21.48 was an excellent personal best and shows what happens when you just
race.

Next week, it is back to scoring meets as MIT travels north to Bowdoin College
to go against Bowdoin, Colby, Springfield and Tufts in a very competitive
5-way meet.

RETURN TO INDOOR








**MIT SETS PERSONAL BESTS ON TRACK AT VALENTINES MEET**

February 9, 2008

MIT had a very good day on the track at the Boston University Valentine's
Invitational this weekend. The meet had over 2700 entries with the women
competing on Friday and the men on Saturday. The tradeoff for superb
competition was an unbelievably long day at the track (11 1/2 hours) on
Saturday. Most of MIT's field event athletes did not compete, instead using
the day for a hard practice back at MIT. However, Patrick Barragan took
advantage of the outstanding competition by setting a personal best of 13-7
1/4 in the pole vault.

On the track, Stephen Oney set yet another personal best in the 400 by running
a very well paced race to finish with a time of 50.82. In the 800, John
Granata ran a very competitive race but making a technical error in the final
100 meters. Nevertheless, he ran a best of 1:55.16 for the top MIT time this
season and puttting him number seven all-time for MIT. Following him in the
next section, Matt Bieniosek ran 1:56.48 for a season best eventhough he
fatigued in the final 200, possibly trying to get the win a little too early.
Shawn Conrad ran a strong race in his section of the 800 to set a season best
of 2:01.42.

Yermie Cohen was the MIT performer of the meet, running a personal best in the
mile with a 4:15.82 even though he made a few technical mistakes in the race.
Cohen's time placed him in the top 10 all-time for MIT. Determined to do even
better, he came back in the 1000 and dropped a very nice victory in 2:31.00 to
move to number nine on the all-time MIT list in that event. Also running
personal bests in the mile run were Paul Welle (4:21.23) and Chris Wong
(4:24.40). Peter Mulligan ran a personal best in the 1000 with an outstanding
race in 2:38.48. Even though he did not win, Kevin Kleinguetl won his section
of the 1000 in 2:34.75.

In the 3000, Gihan Amarasiriwardena showed he is back for good as he ran a
great race for the second week in succession. His time of 8:49.34 led him to
victory and was a great personal best. Running a season best and a great race
was Rocco Repetski with a time of 9:13.82.

In the 5000, Joe Roy-Mayhew took the race out in a pace needed to qualify for
nationals but got no support. His mile splits were 4:43, 9:29 and 14:13. His
overall time of 14:55.36 was a personal best and an outstanding effort but not
good enough to qualify for nationals, missing provisional qualifying by .36
seconds. Trevor Rundell ran a season best of 15:34.50.

The only relay Tech ran was the 4x400 relay. The handoffs were nothing to brag
about and particularly disturbing given how well they had gone the two
previous weeks, but the running made up for it. Oney ran a fine leadoff of
51.1 despite slowing down with 15 meters to go to try to better lineup with
Bieniosek who in turn ran 50.6. Dave Reshef ran an excellent 51.1 to give the
baton to Granata. Running an outstanding leg, he finished in 49.5 to give MIT
a season best of 3:22.46.

Next week, MIT hosts the annual Coed Invite on Saturday starting at noon. This
will be the final tuneup for the New England Division III Championship.

RETURN TO INDOOR




