


**VARSITY RALLIES FOR VICTORY OVER ALUMNI**

December 11, 1999

The MIT Track and Field Alumni showed up on Saturday with enough numbers to
get the job done, but this particular time the bodies did not follow the
spirit, causing the veterans to fall short of winning their 5th straight
Alumni/Varsity competition.

Joining Bill Singhose '90, in leading the way for the "Has Beens" was Alumni
rookie, Ravi Sastry '99. They both scored 26 points using the 5-3-1 scoring
format. Bill won the Shot Put with a 42-4 effort, and the Pole Vault with a
13-06 vault, while finishing 2nd to Sastry in the Long Jump with a leap of
20-05 3/4. Bill may have placed 2nd in the 55HH, but had a poor start and got
repeatedly throttled in the chest by Rick Rajter '03, after every hurdle. Ravi
did his part by winning the hurdles with a time of 8.06, and finishing 2nd in
the 55 Dash with a 6.91 to go along with his 20-08 3/4 winning Long Jump.

Akin Aina '96, defended his sprint double with times of 6.81 and 24.01,
despite a strained hamstring after the first 100 of the 200. Akin is one of
the few who continues to improve since graduation.

The veterans got the ball moving in their favor by taking advantage of the
continued woes of the Varsity in the throws. Todd Chamoy '98, led a sweep in
the Weight Throw with a 50-10 heave. John-Paul Clarke '91 followed with a toss
of 49-06, and Alumni new-comer, Brian Wong '99 garnered 3rd with a PR of
48-07. When Sastry and Singhose went 1-2 in the LJ, it looked like another
long day against the Alumni.

Craig Mielcarz '03, led the charge back by scoring a third in the before-
mentioned LJ with a jump of 20-01 1/4, and winning the High Jump in 6-04. Also
scoring in the HJ was Brian Hoying '03, also jumping 6-04 for 2nd place, just
ahead of the 6-02 jump by Andy Ugarov '95.

Kalpak Kothari '01, and Rajter led a 1-2 finish in the Triple Jump to beat out
Morio Alexander '97, and Singhose. The Alumni responded in the Shot Put with
Singhose tossing his winning throw in the finals, and Patrick Dannen '98,
responding on his final throw for 2nd with a 41-07 1/4 throw to narrowly beat
out Peter Bluvas '01. Dan Kwon '02, and Dan Opila '03, vaulted 13-0 for a 2-3
finish in the Pole Vault. Matt Potts '00, also vaulted 13-0, but finished 4th.
Coming out of the field events, the Alumni held a comfortable lead of 32-22.

Dan Feldman '02, had a vicious kick in the 1500 to re-capture the lead from
Leif Seed '99, who had taken the lead with 100 to go, and finish 1st in
4:05.04 after a pedestrian first 400. Freshman Craig Wildman, never gave up
and passed Arnold Seto '96, at the line for third in 4:21.93. This moved the
Varsity to within 7 points.

The 1-2-3 finish by the Varsity in the 400 with Todd Rosenfield '01, Yuval
Mazor '02, and Matt Lehman '03 running 52.07, 52.42, and 52.57 respectively,
made up for the Alumni going 1-2 in the dash and winning the hurdles. Putting
the Varsity back by 6 points.

The 800 was the back-breaker for the Alumni as both Seed and Seto scratched,
leaving the 800 vacant of "Has Beens". The 9-0 resulting score, led by transer
student Mark Jeunnette '01, and Alan Raphael '02, in 2:02.25, and 2:02.29
respectively allowed the Varsity to take the lead by 3.

Aina's win in the 200 brought the Alumni withing 2 points, but the 5000
secured the victory for the Varsity. Chris McGuire '00, and Dan Feldman '02,
ran behind Terry McNatt '87, and Jim Garcia '80 for the first two miles before
unleashing a sustained kick to easily win with respective times of 15:21.31
and 15:32.18.

The 4x200 Relay results could not change the outcome of the meet, but the
pride of the Alumni would not allow a non-competitive effort. They even went
to the extent of pulling Dafe Ogagan '97, away from his toddler daughter to
run a leg on the relay. However, not even this effort could combat the Varsity
team of Dewey Richmond '03, who also scored a 3rd in the dash, Rosenfield,
Kamal Mokeddem '01, and Mazor.

Other Alumni competing were Neal Karchem '99, in the 400, Albert Lau '73, in
the hurdles, Hung Hoang '96, in the Long Jump, Triple Jump, and High Jump, and
Mike DeMassa '97 and Bob White '88, in the Pole Vault. Ethan Crain '95, Brian
Moore '73, Pat Sullivan '71, and Chuck Van Buren '98, were among those
cheering on their team but not able to compete.

The Varsity are now off for exams and the holiday until January 3rd. The next
meet will be the Beaver Relays on January 8th.



RETURN TO INDOOR


**TECH HAS GOOD SHOWING IN FINAL TUNE-UP**

**Rajter Sets Freshman Record in Pentathlon**

January 8, 2000

While the MIT Men's Track and Field team continues to recover from the rash of
preseason injuries, those who are healthy, and those who have returned to
action, displayed a solid competitive effort in the Beaver Relays. MIT's
annual post Christmas break invitational attracted teams from Coast Guard,
Fitchburg State, Tufts, and Worcester State.

There is no score kept in this meet, but MIT won six of the fifteen open
events, and three of the four relays. The two strongest events were the
Pentathlon, and the Triple Jump where the Engineers swept the first three
places in both. Freshman Rick Rajter led the way in the Pentathlon with 3266
points, setting a freshman record by over 200 points. Rick said he will
probably only hold the record until second place finisher and teammate,
freshman Craig Mielcarz, recovers from his bout with the flu. Craig, who
scored 2942 points, had been sick with a stomach flu for the past three days,
only coming in to compete in order to get a qualifying mark in the Pentathlon.
Later in the day, Rajter (42-4 3/4) combined with Kalpak Kothari '01 (42-5
3/4), and Robbie Gray '02 (41-1 1/2), to sweep the Triple Jump.

Mielcarz and Rajter also figured in another victory, the Shuttle Hurdle Relay.
A seldom run event, the SHR requires the four hurdlers to run in alternating
lanes, back and forth, with a 4 foot exchange zone at each end. Peter Bluvas
'01, fifth in the pentathlon with 2808 points, and second in the Weight Throw,
ran second leg, and Junius Ho '01, who also placed second in the 55HH in 8.27,
ran anchor to win the relay in 33.85 for an average of 8.45.

The final outstanding individual achievement was produced by Dan Feldman '02,
in the 3000. In a race loaded with no less than four national level distance
runners, Feldman took charge with a little over 1000 meters to go. Opening up
a 20 meter lead, Feldman was not challenged until the final lap, when Dave
Patterson of Tufts, an All American in the Steeplechase, made a serious
challenge. Feldman was not to be denied as he showed an equally vicious kick
to win the race in 8:46.55. This performance was only off of roadwork as the
Tech distance runners won't be on the track for a few more weeks.

Being a relay meet, the field events were scored as relay events, combining
the top three performances from the same team to come up with a cumulative
score. In addition to the before mentioned Triple Jump, MIT also won the Pole
Vault with fine performances from Dan Opila '03, Dan Kwon '02, and Steve
Lefkowitz '00. The Long Jumpers won their event as well with Gray, Kothari,
and Ho doing the honors.

Next week, MIT travels to Lewiston, Maine to compete against Westfield State,
Rhode Island College, University of Southern Maine, and host, Bates College.



RETURN TO INDOOR


**MONTGOMERY HIGHLIGHTS DAY WITH 3:52.22 VICTORY AT ECAC MEET**

March 4, 2000

With one week remaining before the NCAA Division III Championships, MIT's
provisional qualifiers went to better their chances of making next week's meet
by taking the trip to Wheaton College, the host school for the ECAC Division
III Championship. Some teams take all those who qualify for this meet in hopes
of scoring a lot of points. MIT chooses to only take those who have already
qualified for Nationals, or are very close to doing so.

Sean Montgomery '01, was one of those who had provisionally qualified in the
1500. He was ranked 11th nationally, thus having a reasonable chance of
getting in, but wanted to improve his chances as well as finally run a fast,
smart race. All goals were accomplished as Montgomery took the approach of
letting others do the work and run his own race. The pace went out quickly as
Sean came through the 400 in 62 and was well toward the rear of the pack.
Showing patience, Sean moved up through the pack as the fast pace wore on the
legs and lungs of those in front of him. At the 1200 mark, Sean came through
in 3:07 and moved up to the leaders. With 200 to go he took the lead, and
never relinquished it as he ran 45 seconds for the final 300 to record a
3:52.22 victory, which qualified him automatically for Nationals.

Chris McGuire '00, and Dan Feldman '02, were not as fortunate. Ranked 12th and
13th in NCAA Division III respectively, both wanted to run a faster time and
qualify automatically. Neither of the Tech runners ran their best. However,
McGuire did finish second in 14:57.22 and Feldman, after leading for the 2nd
mile, was unable to hold the pace and faded to 5th in 15:04.38.

Later in the afternoon, Montgomery joined the Todd Rosenfield '01, Matt Lehman
'03, and Yuval Mazor '02, at the IC4A Championship being held at Harvard to
run the Mile Relay. Having already automatically qualified for the NCAA
Championship, the quartet just wanted some more experience and to try to run a
faster time. After an hour delay, Rosenfield led off the second heat in the
trials with a 50.0 440, which was a personal best. Lehman started the 2nd leg
trying to make up the ground Rosenfield had lost despite his fast leadoff. The
23.3 opening 220 got the best of him as he fatigued with a little over 110
yards out. Matt held on to run a 50.1 but was well behind the leaders. Mazor
went out determined to make up the difference. Yuval opened up with a 22.9
first lap to make up some of the difference, and continued on to run 49.7 and
put MIT in position to run a new personal best for the season. However,
Montgomery was too far behind the leaders and too far in front of those behind
him to spark a great quarter from tired legs. Sean finished with a 50.2 to
give the Engineers a 3:20.27 for the Mile Relay, which is equal to a 3:19.07
1600 Relay.

At Nationals, Sean will run the 1500 and anchor the 1600 Relay. Feldman and
McGuire will hope to get accepted into the 5K field at Illinois Wesleyan, the
site of this years NCAA Division III Championship.

RETURN TO INDOOR


**ENGINEERS GAIN EXPERIENCE AT NCAA DIV. III CHAMPIONSHIP**

March 11, 2000

The MIT Men's Track and Field team sent 5 individuals to the NCAA Division III
Indoor Championship hosted by Illinois Wesleyan. Qualifying were Sean
Montgomery '01, in the 1500, Chris McGuire '00, in the 5000, and Matt Lehman
'03, Yuval Mazor '02, and Todd Rosenfield '01, along with Montgomery in the
1600 Meter Relay.

On Friday evening, Montgomery got things started for Tech with the 1500\. The
early pace was good and Sean was content to sit in the back and let the race
develop. The first quarter was 62 and the 800 split was 2:06. Montgomery moved
up to the lead of the pack after 600 meters, and at the 800 mark began to pull
away, which was "definitely not in the game plan," according to Coach Taylor.
Sean through in a 59.5 400 as he came through the 1200 in 3:06. Coming down
the homestretch with a lap to go, Sean was looking around as if he thought the
race was about over. When the bell sounded for the last lap, Sean looked
bewildered. With 100 meters to go the trail group had caught Sean who was able
to offer no response. He managed to finish 5th out of 6 in his heat with a
3:57.73 performance. He and his teammates would have to wait until the 2nd
heat to see if his performance would get him into the finals.

Upon speaking with Sean it seems that in his continued quest to run less than
the appropriate distance (see Beaver Relays), he did not count the laps, and
not hearing any splits, went by the lap counter, which was apparently a lap
off. Thus Sean thought he only had 2 1/2 laps to go when he began his move.

It turned out a runner in his heat was disqualified, and his time beat two
individuals in the 2nd heat, which got him into the finals.

Also on Friday's schedule was the 1600 Relay. Rosenfield led things off for
the Engineers, who were seeded 7th out of the 8 teams entered. Todd seemed
tight as he ran in the rear of his heat. Coming around the 2nd turn on the
first lap, as the runners went by, the inspector raised his yellow flag, which
indicates a foul has been committed. Todd finished with a 51.1 leadoff, which
unfortunately put Tech about 10 meters behind the pack. Lehman was next, and
he ran a fine leg of 50.1, but was not able to make up any ground during his
leg. Mazor tood off after the pack with a 23.1 first 200, catching 1 team at
the end of the first lap. On the second lap, Yuval was passed back by that
team, but they both passed another team on the homestretch. Yuval turned in a
49.9 split on a track with the same radius at MIT's track. Montgomery got the
baton slightly in third place but soon lost that position as his start was
severely hampered by a strained hamstring he had developed in practice on
Tuesday. Not being able to pull out of the relay without being disqualified
from the meet, Sean was forced to run the race and give an honest effort.
After mulitple electrical stimulation treatment since the occurence of the
injury, it appeared he would be okay, although his acceleration was limited.
Once up to speed Sean was able to run a 50.8 leg, but that was not good enough
against the other anchor legs. It turned out it was for naught as MIT was the
team that was disqualified was stepping on the lane line, although video
indicates that it was UW Lacrosse that had committed the infraction.

Saturday, things began for MIT with the first running event, the 1500\.
Montgomery seemed confident, although he probably still had some doubts due to
Friday's miscalculation. The pace was adequate for the first 400 at 63
seconds. Sean was staying out of trouble, sitting in the back of the pack.
Nothing changed as the end of the pack came through 2:07 for the half. With
500 meters to go, the pack began to spread out and Sean moved into the middle
but not where he should have been. With 300 to go, Sean came through in 3:10
and was less than two seconds behind the leaders. Instead of moving, Sean
looked out of gas back in 8th place. Finally, with 100 meters to go, he woke
up and moved past two more runners to move into 5th place, where he finished
in 3:55.03. Sean earned his first All-American award with that finish.

McGuire running the 5000 would be the final participant for MIT at these
nationals. Chris was the last seed and knew the odds were against him placing,
but he was determined to succeed. The first mile was a steady diet of 71
second quarters. In fact, the second mile was the same as the first as Chris
came through the 2 mile in 9:30. Chris was in the back waiting for an opening
to move or for someone to begin fading. However, Chris was the one to fade. As
the leaders picked up the pace in the final 1/2 mile, Chris slowed to 75
second 400s. It took a time in the low 14:40s to place on the tight track,
which was a little too ambitious for Chris at this time.

It has been a very successful Indoor season, including a record of 16-0,
winning the New England Division III Championship, having 7 individuals meet
the qualifying standard for the National Championship, and earning one All-
American award. The Engineers will now get ready for the Outdoor season with a
spring trip to California from March 20-27.

RETURN TO INDOOR


**MEN'S TRACK WINS NE DIVISION III CHAMPIONSHIP**

**Completes Perfect Season**

February 19, 2000

MIT's Men's Track and Field team battled the snow storm, as well as their
opponents, including the favored host school, Bates College, to win the 21st
New England Division III Indoor Track and Field Championship. MIT combined a
fantastic first day in the Pentathlon with a well balanced attack that had 19
of their 23 athletes score points while setting 11 indoor personal bests en
route to scoring 112 points for Tech's 8th indoor championship.

The first event, the Pentathlon, which was the only one contested on Friday,
was perhaps the key to the meet. Favored Bates College was seeded to score 12
points to MIT's 11. After MIT placed 2-3-4 last year in the Pentathlon, area
colleges made a concerted effort to prevent a repeat performance. It took a
score 400 points higher this year to qualify as a top 12 participant. To make
the task worse, Rick Rajter '03, who was seeded first for MIT, had a soft
tissue stress injury that was quite painful and was not certain if he would be
able to complete the event.

Rick got off to a fine start with a 8.24 55HH time, and followed that up with
a 20-3 Long Jump to put himself in 2nd place after 2 events. Craig Mielcarz
'03, seeded 6th going into the event, put together a 20-11 Long Jump to move
him up to 3rd. Peter Bluvas '01, last year's runner-up, was also having a good
start, but was only in 5th. Tony Pelosi '01, MIT's final entry, was trying to
stay close so that he could pass enough people in the final event, the 1000
meters, to move into scoring position.

The Shot Put, the 3rd event, is a very low scoring event, so even though
Bluvas and Rajter finished 1-3 in the event, only Bluvas moved up in the
positions, so that MIT now held 2-3-4-9. Fortunately, the High Jump is a very
high scoring event. Using 2 pits to speed the event up, MIT managed to have 4
of the final 6 jumpers between the two pits, making things very exciting to
watch. After Mielcarz (6-6), Rajter (6-2 1/2), Bluvas (5-8), and Pelosi (5-9
1/2) finished they were in 1-2-3-9 with only 1 event to go.

The 1000 is also a high-scoring event (10 points per second). MIT showed their
good conditioning, finishing 1-3-4-5 in the event. Pelosi won in 2:42 to move
up to a tie for 6th with 3101 points, while Mielcarz set a freshman record
with 3414 points. Rajter and Bluvas followed with 3377 and 3239 respectively.
MIT had more than they had hoped for, a 24.5 point performance to Bates 2.5
points.

Day 2, MIT stayed on a roll. In the Long Jump, Robbie Gray '02, continued to
surprise people by fulfilling his 3rd seed with a 3rd place 21-2 1/4
performance to get 6 more points for Tech. MIT had no one entered in the Shot
Put or Weight Throw, and had to sit and watch to see if Bates would be able to
do better than their predicted 15 points in the Weight, and 2 in the Shot.
Fortunately, Bates, while doing well, were only able to garner 14 of the
seeded 17 points in the two events.

Meanwhile, in the trials, Todd Rosenfield '01, the 12th seed in the 400,
showed it is not what times you come in with, it is what you are prepared to
do when it counts. Todd cruised to a 2nd place finish in the trials with an
easy 51.35. Likewise, Yuval Mazor '02, jogged to a 1:27.74 to advance in the
600.

The High Jump, an event where MIT could not improve on their seeds because
they were supposed to get 1-2, started very well with Mielcarz, and Brian
Hoying '03, not missing any attempts through 6-3. At 6-5, with 5 jumpers
remaining, Hoying began abandoning his curve approach and running straight at
the bar, thus preventing from clearing his usual 6-5. His perfect performance
through 6-3 was good enough for 3rd place. Two cleared 6-5, Mielcarz and Brown
from Springfield. Craig cleared 6-6 on his first attempt while Brown set a
season best on his 2nd attempt. At 6-7, Craig showed he is at his best with
competition as he again cleared on his first attempt, winning the event as
Brown missed. The 16 points was a big boost, giving Tech 46 1 /2 points, 34 by
freshmen.

The 1500 was the first final on the track. Sean Montgomery '01, and Dan
Feldman '02, not seeded to score, were hoping to defy the seeds in this high
quality field. Sean, a little too intent on winning, went out too fast with
the leader who took off in 59 at the quarter and 2:01 for the half. The top
seed, was sitting back about 30 meters, running a very smart race. Montgomery
made matters worse by taking the lead just before the 1200 in 3:06 and tried
to pull away. By 1350 is was apparent Sean would not be able to hold the lead.
Nevertheless, he held on in 3:56.30, an indoor best and NCAA provisional
qualifying performance, to place 3rd. Feldman ran a great race, kicking past 3
in the home stretch to place 6th with an all-time best of 3:58.70. Bates
College earned 8 points to gain 1 on MIT.

The next event for MIT was the 400. Rosenfield saved the best for last as he
ran a great race, setting a PR by nearly a full second in 50.30 to place 4th.
Todd's performance moved him into 7th place on the all-time MIT list. Not to
be outdone, Mazor blasted out of the blocks, coming through the 400 in 54 en
route to a PR of 1:23.79 to earn 3rd place.

Bates College was scoring points too frequently for comfort as they closed to
within 10 points after scoring 16 in the 400. Bowdoin College, seeded to get
3rd in the meet, began to make a run by placing 2-3-5 in the 55 to score 16
points.

Bowdoin continued to charge by winning the 800 and 1000 for 20 more points.
Montgomery came back in the 1000, but if you have ever gone into serious
oxygen debt in your first event and then tried to come back in another event,
you know how painful it can be. Now Montgomery also knows. However, he managed
to regain focus during the race to finish 2nd with a PR of 2:31.52 in a truly
championship performance for the team.

The Pole Vault saw Dan Kwon '02, come through with a tie for 6th place with a
13-0 vault. Bates and Bowdoin earned 5th and 4th respectively to close the gap
a little more.

The Triple Jump, was not going well for MIT, as Kalpak Kothari '01, was having
a difficult time getting on the board without going over it. Rajter, enduring
the pain, began with a 42' jump to at least get him into the finals. In the
finals, Rajter came through with a 43-10 3/4 to place 4th. Kalpak came through
on his final jump to nail a 44-2 1/2 to move into 2nd place and give MIT 12
more points. At this point, with 5 events to go, MIT had a reasonably
comfortable 20 point lead.

The lead was comfortable because Feldman was about to come back and run the
3000, and Chris McGuire the 5000. Dan, a little cautious after such a fast
1500, wisely let the leader go. In the final 600 meters, as Dan and one other
runner were realizing they could catch the fading leader, Dan picked up the
pace. It was too little, too late, as Dan was unable to catch the leader and
was passed by the runner he has just passed despite his 30 second final 200
meters. Nevertheless, Dan came through with a much needed 6 points.

Chris McGuire '00, one of only two seniors for MIT in the meet, was seeded to
score 6th in the 5000. Chris showed how reliable seeds are as he ran mile
splits of 4:46, 4:49, and 4:52, and then finished with a 32 last 200 to run a
career best on an indoor flat track of 14:58.18 to place 2nd.

Going into the relays the victory was secured, but that did not stop Tech from
pursuing better times and more points. The 1600 Relay was the relay MIT was
really trying to win even though they only had the 3rd fastest seed coming
into the meet. Tech's only weakness seems to be that no one can put together a
good leadoff leg. Rosenfield ran well, but not his best as he finished the 1st
leg in 51.7, good enough for 3rd position. Matt Lehman '03, MIT's only fresh
runner, went out hard, but had to slow down as he got caught on the inside.
Lehman still brought the baton in 2nd place with a 50.9 leg. Mazor showed he
still had plenty left as he blasted out, passed the leader at the handoff, and
opened up a 20 meter lead with a 50.1 leg. Montgomery, tired but determined,
ran a strong 50.2 to bring home the victory in a season best of 3:23.18.

The final event, the 3200 Relay, was not as strong an event as the past 3
years. MIT hoped to take advantage of this with four fresh runners. George
Hanson '03, opened up with a strong leg of 2:02.7 to keep MIT in the front.
Alan Raphael '02, did not have his best run and faded to 4th with a 2:03.2
effort. Phil Loiselle '01, ran very well, closing the gap to 10 meters with a
2:00.8. Anchor, John Biesiadecki '01, went out hard in 27, 57, and 1:27 to
close the gap. However, John was not able to stay with the leaders when they
kicked, dropping back to a very respectable 4th in 8:07.65.

The focus for MIT is now to see who can qualify for Nationals. Next week, the
Engineers travel to Boston University for the All New England Championship.
Fast times, and high jumps are the hope against the Division I competition.

RETURN TO INDOOR


**MIT MEN'S TRACK COMES THROUGH WITH TOP PERFORMANCES AT NEW ENGLAND
CHAMPIONSHIPS**

February 25, 2000

Most of the New England Division III Championship team elected to exercise
their option to focus on their academics and getting ready for Outdoor Track
rather than looking for a personal best against the Division I schools at this
weekend's All Division New England Championships being held at Boston
University.

Of those who elected to continue in order to try and qualify for Nationals or
set a record, the highlight for MIT on day one of competition was easily the
5000. Chris McGuire '00, and Dan Feldman '02, both suffering from slight colds
this week, nevertheless ran NCAA provisional qualifying marks of 14:48.10, and
14:49.91 respectively. Both also qualified for the IC4A Championships next
weekend at Harvard, and may try again for an automatic qualifying time.

Also on Saturday, Robbie Gray '02, jumped 21-04 1/2 to place 7th, 1 place out
of the scoring in the Long Jump. Craig Mielcarz '03, was not quite himself as
he cleared 6-5 but failed to make his usual 6-7. Sean Montgomery '01, wasted a
lot of energy in the Mile responding to everyone's adjusting moves in a tight
race, and was not able to respond when they really moved, fading to 4:17.36.
Yuval Mazor '02, ran a great 500, turning in a 1:05.98 to move him to number 4
on the all-time MIT list.

Day two did not look like it was going to be so good when Kalpak Kothari '01,
continued his fouling woes in the Triple Jump. Kalpak has some good distance,
but unfortunately, they were all fouls by about 1 inch.

Freshman Sean Nolan, came to this meet to try and take down the freshman
record in the 3000. However, Sean was suffering from a mild respiratory
problem and was unable to keep the pace after the first mile. He faded to 9:06
at the end of the race.

Last on the list of competitors for MIT was the 1600 Relay, which thought they
had a chance of qualifying provisionally for Nationals (3:20.94) since they
would be fresh for the first time this season. Seeded 10th with a time of
3:23.18, the MIT team was to run in the 4th of 6 sections on the 4 lane track.
Leadoff runner, Todd Rosenfield '01, got off to a great start of 23.4 for the
first 200. Todd held onto 2nd place as he handed off to Matt Lehman '03, in
49.9. Matt took the lead as he came down the home stretch on the first lap,
running 23.5 for the first 200. Matt did not seem to let up as he extended the
lead to a little over 5 meters with his 49.5 leg. Yuval took over the third
leg and proceeded to open up a bigger lead over the rest of the field with the
exception of Bentley College. With a first lap of 23.5, Yuval held on to a 5
meter lead. By the time he handed off to Sean Montgomery with a 49.2 effort,
Bentley had closed to within 3 meters. Sean went out unusually hard for him
and brought the first lap home in 23.6. From there it was a matter of not
whether they would qualify provisionally, but could they qualify automatically
for Nationals. Sean brought the baton home with a 49.6 in first place for the
section, and 6th overall, with an automatically qualifying time of 3:18.40.

Next week, the 5K runners and the 1600 team will travel up river to Harvard to
run in the prestigious IC4A Championship.

RETURN TO INDOOR


**MIT WINS FIRST QUAD CUP TO REMAIN UNDEFEATED**

**Despite Being Underdogs, Tech Responds To Get Job Done**

January **** 15, 2000

MIT's Track and Field team traveled to Lewiston, Maine Saturday to compete in
the season's first Quad Cup against Bates, UMass/Lowell, and USM. The
Engineers rallied from their underdog position to win the meet with 183.5
points to UMass/Lowell's 179, Bates' 169.5, and USM's 60.

After receiving the seeds on Friday night, the MIT track team's first reaction
was one of "how can we possibly win this one". The second response was, "let's
do what we have to do to win this meet". The seed performances, which are
turned in by the head coaches, had Division 2 powerhouse, UMass Lowell,
favored to win with 221 points. Host, Bates College, was favored to garner 2nd
place with 151 points, while MIT was seeded 3rd with 135 points. Bringing up
the rear was up and coming University of Southern Maine with 90 points.

MIT had two things in their favor, one, all of their performances had been on
the tight turns of the MIT track, and two, all of their performances had come
in single gender meets where time between an athlete's events is minimal. Tech
hoped to respond to the higher level of competition, run faster on the Bates'
track, have the athletes returning from injuries compete well, and hope the
intensity of this meet helped them and hurt their opponents.

The first event to finish as a final, even though the field events had started
an hour before, was the Mile Run. Sean Montgomery '01, almost back to full
health from an early season recurring knee injury, responded reasonably well
to the fast pace of Matt Twiest of Bates, and finished 2nd with a 4:21.36. Dan
Feldman '02, ran a personal best with a 4:21.59 to finish 3rd, and Chris
McGuire '00, finished 6th with a 4:26.02 performance. MIT was behind Bates 16
to 18 right out of the blocks.

The Weight Throw was next, and Bates did not hesitate to capitalize on the
throwing woes of MIT by sweeping the first 4 places to score 27 points. Peter
Bluvas '01, came through for Tech and earned a 5th place for 4 points.
However, being down 45 to 20 after 2 events was daunting.

The High Hurdles, an event where MIT was only supposed to score 6 compared to
Lowell's 23, had to be the turnaround. In Tech's favor were the trials where
all four MIT entrants qualified for the final with three season bests. In the
final, Rick Rajter '03, ran another PR of 8.15 to earn 3rd place. Junius Ho
'01, did not run a season best, but he did run well, placing 5th in 8.33.
Craig Mielcarz '03, ran his second season best of the day, placing 7th with a
8.40. Peter Bluvas finished 8th, also with a season best of 8.54.

The next event, the 400, was another event that Lowell was seeded to score big
in with 24 points. Bates and MIT had something to say about that as they both
scored 9 to leave Lowell with 16. Todd Rosenfield '01, placed 4th with a best
of 51.45, and Yuval Mazor '02, placed 5th with a 51.46. The score after 4
events was Bates 64, MIT 42, and Lowell 38.

The High Jump, an event MIT hoped to dominate, went very well. Both Mielcarz,
and fellow freshman, Brian Hoying, cleared 6-5 to earn 1st and 2nd
respectively. Rajter also tied for 5th to give Tech 19.5 points.

The next two events, the 600 and 55 went Lowell's way as they scored 33 points
to Bates' 12, and MIT's 14. Matt Lehman '03, led the way for Tech in the 600
with a 1:27.44 for 5th place, while Marc Washington '03, did the same in the
dash with a 6.87.

The results of the Long Jump, an event that MIT was hoping for some big
things, was perhaps the only event of the day that did not go in Tech's favor.
Rajter came through with a season best of 20-02 3/4 for 5th place, but no
other Engineer made the finals.

Montgomery came back with a vengeance in the 800, running away with a 1:58.84
victory. A supporting cast of Alan Raphael '02, (4th), John Biesiadecki '01,
(6th), and George Hanson '03, (7th) all ran season bests to give MIT 19 points
and the lead over Bates by 1 point.

Feldman and McGuire returned to the track in the 1000 along with Phil Loiselle
'01, returning from injury, to total 8 points, although Lowell scored 20 to
lead the meet 13 points . Feldman ran a 2:36.16 for an excellent performance,
but Bates had tied MIT's score.

The 200 was the biggest surprise of the meet for MIT. Favored to score 0
points, Mazor, Rosenfield, and Kamal Mokeddem all ran bests to score 8 points.
Bates scored 12 and Lowell 10, but it could have been much worse.

The Pole Vault and Triple Jump, two of MIT's best events, proved the
difference in the meet. In the Vault, Dan Kwon '02, Dan Opila '03, and Matt
Potts '00, placed 3rd, 4th, and 5th respectively to give MIT 15 points and
bring them within 1 point of Bates and 10.5 of Lowell. Rajter, once again came
through to win the Triple with a PR of 44-0 to finish with 22.5 points. Rick
was supported by Kalpak Kothari '01, Robbie Gray '02, and Junius Ho '01, with
3rd, 4th, and 5th places respectively.

The lead was now in MIT's favor at 153.5 to Bates 142.5, and Lowell's 140.
However the Shot Put was not looking good for MIT as Bluvas failed to the make
the finals by 2". Lowell retook the lead by scoring 21 points.

MIT returned the shutout favor to Lowell by taking 18 points in the 5000 to go
into the relays with a 8 points lead over Bates and 10.5 points over Lowell.
The marvelous job in the 5000 was not by the usual cast of Feldman and
McGuire. Instead, Liyan Guo '01, led the way with a 15:49.42 2nd place finish.
Running a PR, freshman Sean Nolan ran 15:49.99 for 3rd. Still trying to get
back in condition after a season ending injury in Cross Country, Ed Keehr '01,
ran to a 6th place, while freshman Albert Liu ran a very well paced race to
claim 7th in a PR of 16:43.99.

The relays were being scored 9-6-3-0, so as long as MIT earned no worse than
2nd place in both relays, they would win the meet. Realizing that both Lowell
and Bates had very good relay teams, MIT brought back all their best runners
to answer the bell one more time. Both relays were won by UMass Lowell, but
MIT easily handled 2nd place to secure the victory and stay undefeated.

Next week, MIT is at home vs. Bowdoin, Springfield, and USM.



RETURN TO INDOOR




**MEN'S TRACK REMAINS UNDEFEATED**

**Convincing Win in Quad Cup II Brings Tech to 7-0**

January 22, 2000

MIT Men's Track and Field team scored an easy victory in the second Quad Cup
series with 225 points against Bowdoin College (158), Springfield College
(128), University of Southern Maine (77), and WPI (9)to move to seven wins and
zero defeats.

The Quad Cup is a 4 week series of meets among 16 Division III Colleges, a
couple of Division II Colleges, as well as Colleges outside of New England who
can add quality to the meet. The 4 team per meet format, while being the
original intent, is attempted but not necessarily followed. Eight places score
per non-relay event, with the scoring varying minimally, 9-7-6-5-4-3-2-1. Each
team is permitted 4 entries per event. Therefore, the maximum any team can
score in one event is 27 points.

With this meet being the only potential easy victory for MIT this season, the
home team wanted to try and get everyone on the team into an event, a feat
that cannot be done in most meets. In order to not deviate from this attempt
it was necessary for MIT to outscore it's opponents in the jumps by a large
margin.

The Engineers more than came through, as they finished the Long Jump, Triple
Jump, High Jump, and Pole Vault with a 60 point lead over Springfield and 72
over Bowdoin. Highlited in these events were season bests by Rick Rajter '03,
Robbie Gray '02, and Brian Hoying '03, in the Long Jump; a near sweep in the
Triple Jump with Gray, and Junius Ho '01, providing the season bests; a
continued 1-2 finish by Craig Mielcarz '03, and Hoying in the High Jump, and a
new PR by Steve Lefkowitz '00, in the Pole Vault.

The woes continued in the throwing events as Tech managed 0 points in both the
Weight Throw and Shot Put. In part, this is due to a lack of throwers as MIT
only has one weight thrower and shot putter, and he is the New England
Division III runner-up in both the Pentathlon and Decathlon, which of course
keeps him very busy.

The running events saw the return to good competition by many who had been
injured during the pre-season. The added depth showed as MIT outscored their
opponents in every event from the 400 - 3000 with the exception of the 600
where Tech scored 1 less than Bowdoin.

Tech's hurdlers led the way with a 2-3-4 finish by Ho (8.19), Rajter (8.19),
and Bluvas (8.33). Yuval Mazor '02, had a spectacular run in the 600, narrowly
missing the MIT record in the event by .15 seconds in 1:24.74. John
Biesiadecki '01, ran his best time in the 800 by three seconds with a 2:00.73,
leading his team's four places to 16 points. Sean Montgomery '01, and Dan
Feldman '02, took care of business in the 1500 by finishing 1-2 as usual. Todd
Rosenfield '01, led the 400 runners to a 2-3-4 finish with a 52.04 time.

Next week, Tech travels to the Coast Guard Academy to compete against
Westfield State, WPI, and a rematch with Bates.



RETURN TO INDOOR


**MEN'S TRACK MOVES TO 12-0**

**Mielcarz Takes Over For Injured Rajter To Help Lead MIT To Victory**

January 29, 2000

MIT Men's Track and Field team traveled to New London, Connecticut to the home
of the Coast Guard Academy for Quad Cup III to face a rematch with Bates
College along with Westfield State, and WPI. Going into the meet undefeated,
but without top scorer Rick Rajter '03, who has been scoring over 20 points
per meet, MIT was unsure of victory, particularly if Bates put up a fight
similar to the one two weeks ago.

Fellow freshman, Craig Mielcarz, achieved 3 season bests to help lead Tech to
a surprisingly easy victory with MIT scoring 241 1/4 points to Bates' 143 1/4,
Coast Guard's 124, Westfield State's 80 1/4, and WPI's 5 1/4. In setting his
season bests, Mielcarz won both the Long Jump with 21-0, and the High Jump
with a leap of 6-7. His third PR occurred in the 55HH where he ran 8.35 to
earn 4th place. Mielcarz added an 8th place in the Shot Put for good measure
to finish with 24 points for the day. Mielcarz's winning long jump came on his
final jump to move him up from 3rd in dramatic fashion. In the High Jump, he
came right over from his hurdle race and popped a 6-4 leap. At 6-7, Mielcarz
cleared it on his first attempt with plenty of room to spare.

The other multiple winner was Sean Montgomery '01, who won both the mile
(4:22.06), and the 1000 Meter run (2:32.79). Montgomery ran a sit and kick
race in the mile, which proved very effective for both him and Dan Feldman
'02, who went with him to finish 2nd in 4:22.30. In the 1000, Montgomery was
running against a very good runner from Bates who owned the best time in New
England in the 1000 with a 2:33.59, and was fresh going into the race. After
coming through the 400 in a respectable 60 seconds, Montgomery pulled away,
surprising the competition. Montgomery was able to cruise in to the finish
uncontested in 2:32.79.

Other winners were Kalpak Kothari '01, in the Triple Jump, Tony Pelosi '01, in
the 600, and freshman Sean Nolan in the 5000. Kothari did not have a
spectacular day in the Triple Jump, but neither did anyone else. Kothari was
consistently over 40' but was not able to do better than 40-9 3/4. Pelosi
decided that the best way to run a fast 600 would be to dictate the pace of
the race, which he did from start to finish in 1:27.42. Nolan became the 3rd
fastest freshman in MIT history in the 5K with a time of 15:24.37. Running
behind a freshman from Coast Guard, who had beat him all season in Cross
Country, Nolan took the lead once the pace slowed just after 2 miles. Nolan
ran his last mile under 4:50 and finished with a 31 last 200, showing that
there is more in the tank if he needs it.

Other notable season or personal bests were provided by many other Engineers.
Dan Opila '03, vaulted 13-3 in the Pole Vault to lead a 2-3-4-5 finish. Robbie
Gray '02, jumped 20-09 in the Long Jump to claim 2nd in addition to his 3rd
place in the Triple Jump, and 6th place in the 55 Meter dash. Peter Bluvas
'01, had a big day by setting a PR in the 55HH with a 8.31 3rd place
performance. Peter also earned a 3rd in the Shot Put, an 8th in the Weight
Throw, and ran a fine leg on the 1600 Relay. In addition to Feldman's Mile
Run, he also earned 2nd in the 800 with a best of 2:01.25. Season bests were
provided by Phil Loiselle '01, Craig Wildman '03, and Kenny Walker in the 1000
with times of 2:42.61, 2:44.99, and 2:46.44, but their times will drop
significantly as the season comes to an end since Loiselle and Walker are just
coming into form after early season injuries, and Wildman had just completed
his first double. In the 5000, Ed Keehr '01, is getting back into shape and
showed it with a 15:57.41. Albert Liu also ran a PR in the low 16s, but there
was an error in the timing which is still being looked at.

Next week, the two best teams in New England Division III, both undefeated,
will go at it in the final Quad Cup meet of the season when MIT travels to
Tufts to see who will claim the title of Quad Cup Champion.



RETURN TO INDOOR


**MIT Track and Field Finishes Season Undefeated**

**Victory Over Tufts Required 39 Season or Personal Bests**

February 5, 2000

Like true Champions, MIT's Men's Track and Field team answered the call
against Tufts, Springfield, Wesleyan, and WPI today en route to a victory that
enabled them to finish the regular season and Quad Cup undefeated. Entering
the meet at Tufts beautiful new facility, both Tufts and MIT were undefeated,
with Tufts having the edge based on the seed performances. Leaving the
building, MIT had spoiled Tufts perfect record in their new facility by
scoring 213 points to Tufts' 197\. Springfield finished with 105, Wesleyan 65,
and WPI 10 points to round out the team scoring.

Based on the seeds, Tufts University Jumobs were 14 point favorites on their
home track. However, MIT's Engineers believed the Tufts track to be superior
enough to account for much of the difference in times run and distances
jumped. This combined with the fact that MIT has won 16 of the previous 19
Indoor meetings with Tufts during Coach Halston Taylor's tenure, gave Tech
athletes the feeling of confidence they needed to pull off the upset.

MIT was favored heavily in the jumps and needed to outscore Tufts by enough to
make up for the edge Tufts would accumulate in the throws, sprints, and
hurdles. First up was the Long Jump. Robbie Gray '02, was the first one to
jump 20-10. Soon afterward, Craig Mielcarz joined Robbie at the same mark.
Before long Rick Rajter also jumped 20-10 as did a freshman from Tufts. As the
event progressed and both teams lined the jumped pit, cheering with every
jump, the Tufts jumper took the lead with a 21-10 effort. Robbie Gray was next
and answered with a huge 22-02 1/4 leap. Mielcarz closed to 21-6, but was not
able to get any closer. Brian Hoying popped a 20-10 3/4 to pull into 4th, and
Rajter held onto 5th. What a start--24-9!

The Pole Vault was finishing about the same time as the Long Jump. Tufts one
pole vaulter was injured and could not compete. MIT was favored to go 1-2-3,
which they did with Dan Opila '03, Dan Kwon '02, and Matt Potts '00, and added
5th from Steve Lefkowitz '00 for a 26-0 edge on Tufts.

The meet was a coed meet, the first for MIT this season, and required a lot of
patience as things unfolded much slower than usual. On the plus side, both
teams got to rest a lot more and bring their top competitors back with much
more rest. One of these situations that MIT took advantage of was the fact
that two of their best sprinters, Todd Rosenfield '01, their top 400 entry,
and Yuval Mazor '02, their top 600 entry, would be able to run the dash. The
55 final was immediately after the 600, and the trials were well before both
the 400 and 600. So, thanks to the extra rest provided by the women running
alternately with the men, both Todd and Yuval were entered in the 55 with
hopes of making the finals, which would make them automatic point scorers,
even if they finished in the last two places. Not only did Marc Washington
'03, and Robbie Gray run season bests of 6.75 and 6.85 to make the finals, but
so did Todd (6.87), and Yuval (6.98). MIT ended up outscoring Tufts 13-12 in
an event where Tufts was favored 16-6.

Prior to the final of the dash, the first running final was the 1500\. Tufts
was favored to go 1-2 on 1500 times, but MIT's Sean Montgomery '01, and Dan
Feldman '02, had run mile times that converted to faster 1500s than Tufts had
run. The pace was reasonably quick from a group whose top 5 seeds were all
expected to run at least two or three middle distance/distance events this
day. Montgomery was patient through the 800 in 2:09, then got tired of how
close the pack was and pulled out to a 3:12 1200 split before easing home in
3:59.74. The real battle was for 2nd, as Lyons from Tufts held off Feldman
4:00.41 to 4:00.74 in a furious kick over the final 200\. Feldman ran 45
seconds over the final 300. Chris McGuire '00, added his own personal best to
the mix with a 4:02.76, good enough for 6th and a 18-13 MIT edge in an event
Tufts had counted on to change the momentum.

The hurdles, another one of Tufts big events, went well for them as they
scored 1-2-4-7 for a 23-8 edge despite a personal best by Junius Ho '01, of
8.15 for 5th place. This brought the score to 76-45 in MIT's favor.

The 400 and 600, scheduled to go 12-11 and 18-12 respectively in Tuft's favor,
went about as expected with Rosenfield leading the way for Tech in the 400
with a PR of 51.21 for 3rd, and Mazor doing the same in the 600 with a PR of
1:24.20. Overall, Tufts came out ahead 30-24, which was 1 more point in MIT's
bag than expected. After the before-mentioned 55, the score was MIT 113 and
Tufts 87.

The High Jump, another of Tech's big events, went even better than expected.
While Tufts only was favored to score 5 points, Springfield could cause some
problems with their two 6-4 jumpers. Mielcarz and Hoying put an end to that
worry by both nailing 6-6 to go 1-2. Rajter cleared 6-2 to follow the
Springfield duo, and Roger Nielsen '01, jumped 6-0 for 6th, which left Tufts
to only claim 7th place and 2 points to MIT's 23.

The Weight Throw and Shot Put, known to be Tech weaknesses this year, stayed
true to form as Peter Bluvas '01, managed the only points with a 41-9 in the
Shot for 7th place. Fortunately, Springfield helped out greatly by scoring 45
points in the two events to Tufts 20.

Tufts was creeping closer, but with the Triple Jump remaining and MIT still
ahead 138-109, Tufts was going to have to do some serious damage in the middle
distance events. Two of these events, the 800 and 1000 were up next and Tufts
was supposed to outscore MIT 35-20.

Feldman and McGuire were coming back in the 800 to prevent Tufts from making
their comeback. However, both thought there were going to be two sections of
the 800, and neither had completed their warmup when they were called to the
line. Fortunately, John Biesiadecki '01, and George Hanson '03, both ran PRs
of 2:00.18, and 2:01.69 to pace MIT with 3rd and 5th place finishes. Feldman
and McGuire added 7th and 8th with 2:02 times to outscore Tufts 13-12.

Montgomery was back up in the 1000, which again proved to be a "no contest",
as he walked away and then cruised to victory in 2:33.45. Phil Loiselle '01,
and Craig Wildman '03 added superb 6th and 8th place finishes to hold Tufts to
15 points to Tech's 13, almost making the two events a wash.

It was looking like Tufts was running out of time, but the 200 made it close
again as Mazor and Rosenfield were only able to place 4th and 8th despite a PR
by Yuval of 23.43. This moved Tufts to within 15 with the 3000 next for the
team that placed 9th at the National Cross Country Championship. Once again
Feldman and McGuire toed the line along with freshman Sean Nolan who was
proving this season that he was not going to sit back and watch others take
all the glory.

Tufts' runners took the pace out hard in a 4:35 first mile. Nolan, Feldman,
and McGuire trailed by 4-6 seconds but were within striking distance. With 800
meters to go, Nolan and Feldman began to close on the leaders. With 200 to go,
perhaps a little late, Feldman dug down and ran a 30 second last lap to finish
2nd by less than a second in 8:41.81. Nolan closed to 4th in a fantastic time
of 8:44.55. McGuire faded a bit at the end, but finished in a very respectable
8:53.39 for 7th in his 3rd race of the day. MIT's lead was down to 7 points as
Tufts took the event 22-14.

Then there was the Triple Jump. MIT jumpers again dominated as they went
1-2-4-6, led by Kalpak Kothari '01, with a 43-5 3/4 leap to secure the team
victory going into the relays. Also scoring were Rajter, who only took one
jump, Ho, who set a PR of 41-1 1/2, and Gray.

The best event of the day was by far the1600 Meter Relay. Both teams were
tired, but both wanted the victory. Mazor led off for Tech with a
understandably tired 52.5 leg to put MIT about 15 meters behind Tufts. Matt
Lehman '03, made up nearly all of that distance with a superb 50.8 leg.
Rosenfield took down a tired Tufts' runner who had won the 600 and place 2nd
in the 1000, with a 50.7 leg. This gave Montgomery about a 10 meter lead at
the handoff. He quickly expanded the lead with a fast first 20 meters. Lemieux
from Tufts, a freshman who had won both the 200 and 400, sprinted to make up
the difference but could only make up half the distance on the first 200. In
the final 200, Lemieux closed fast to pull even on the final straight.
Montgomery was holding the lead but was beginning to tie up. At the line,
Tufts pulled out the relay in a lean, running 3:24.64 to MIT's 3:24.69.
Montgomery had run 50.6 to cap a fine day of running, but it was not quite
enough on this day in this event. However, this did nothing to sour the team
victory by MIT.

Next week, MIT is at home to host the Quad Cup Invitational, a non-scoring
meet to tune-up for the Division III Championships the following weekend.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**TECH HEADS INTO CHAMPIONSHIPS WITH QUALITY** ******TUNEUP**

**Twenty Five Season and Personal Bests Lead The Way In Quad Cup Invite**

February 12, 2000

The MIT Men's Track and Field team was at home this Saturday against six other
teams from New England and New York in a non-scoring Invitational. The fact
that the meet was non-scoring allowed individuals to focus on one or two
events without having to be concerned about how it would affect the team's
point total. This also allowed MIT to rest a few individuals who were tired or
banged up from the exhausting Quad Cup series.

Twenty five season and personal bests marked the day as Tech athletes prepared
for next weeks Division III Championships. In the morning, Peter Bluvas '01,
and Roger Nielsen '01, significantly improved their pentathlon scores to
better their chances of making the top 12 who qualify for the Championship.
Peter started with a horrible 1st hurdle in the 55HH, but rebounded in other
events to finish with 2936 points. Roger improved his early season total by
300 points to finish with 2772. Last year, MIT finished 2-3-4 in the Div. III
Meet and hope to make a run at that again if things go well.

In the dash, Kamal Mokeddem '01, Kevin Atkinson '01, and Alex Rodriguez '00,
all had season bests with respective times of 7.04, 7.06, and 7.07. These
three, along with Todd Rosenfield '01, and Marc Washington '03, received
season bests in the 200 with Rosenfield leading the way in 23.46, the 11th
best performance of all time for MIT.

In the 600, Sean Montgomery '01, made the move down to get some speed in and
attempt to break Yuval Mazor's 1 week old record of 1:24.20. Break it he did,
with splits of 26, 27, 28, Sean went wire to wire by himself in 1:21.40. This
should certainly give opponents something to think about at next week's
Championships.

The 800 Meter race was mostly a test to see who was going to represent MIT on
the 3200 Relay at the next week's meet. Mazor moved up to test the waters for
the first time and did so admirably in 2:01.16. Matt Yarosz '00, (2:04.26),
Kenny Walker '01, (2:04.80), Craig Wildman '03, (2:05.24), and Damian Plummer
'02, (2:07.03) all ran season bests for MIT.

John Biesiadecki '01, gave the 1000 a try for the first time, and came away
with a fine 2:37.15 performance. Phil Loiselle '01, and Sean Nolan '03, did
the same in the 1500, running 4:11.7 and 4:12.9 respectively.

Dan Feldman '02, needed a better time in the 5000 in order to secure getting
into the All New England Championship in two weeks and did not disappoint as
he ran 14:57.44. Finishing 2nd with his own season best was Ed Keehr '01, who
ran 15:40.42.

The 3200 Relay team, hoping to run a time that would guarantee getting into
the fastest section next week, ran George Hanson '03, and Alan Raphael '02,
fresh while doubling back Biesiadecki and Loiselle. Raphael ran 1:59 and
Biesiadecki 2:01 to lead MIT to a 8:11.05 season best time.

Kalpak Kothari '01, is rounding into end of season form, as he had numerous
jumps over 43 feet. Kalpak finished with an official 44-03 leap in the Triple
Jump, but did have a monstrous leap over 45' that was a very close foul.

MIT, along with Bates, Bowdoin, Tufts, and Williams should be in the hunt for
the Division III Title.

RETURN TO INDOOR


