


**SEAN NOLAN LEADS THE WAY FOR VARISTY'S TRIUMPH OVER THE ALUMNI**

December 15, 2001

Sean Montgomery (10), Craig Mielcarz (11) and Zach Traina (11 1/4) led the way
in scoring to a 91-31 victory over the Alumni in this annual meet. However,
Sean Nolan, determined to exorcise the demons that plagued him at the NCAA
Division III National Cross Country Championship, led the way in performances
with an outstanding 14:53.43 5000 meter victory to provisionally qualify for
nationals.

A much leaner John Wallberg, started things off right for the Alumni when he
won the 35 lb. weight throw with a 49-0 1/2 effort. John also captured the
shot put with a 44-8 3/4 throw to become the only double winner for the "has-
beens". Akin Aina also performed well for the Alumni as he secured second
place in both the 55 and 200 meter dashes. Not the same Bill Singhose of old,
he nevertheless came through for two big second place efforts in the pole
vault and long jump. The only other first place winner for the old guys was
Morio Alexander in the triple jump with a huge 42-11 1/2 leap. Other scorers
for the Alumni were first time has-been, Kalpak Kothari (2nd in the triple
jump) and Todd Chamoy (3rd in the weight throw). Others competing, but not
placing, were; Keith Bevans and Patrick Dannen in the shot put, Sam Sidiqi and
Steve Lefkowitz in the pole vault, Jared Miller in the long and triple jumps,
Josh Feldman, Liyan Guo and Steven Linder in the 5000, Bob Collins in the 1500
and Todd Rosenfield in the 400.

Using the old 5-3-1 scoring format, the Alumni kept things close in the early
field events, but were outmanned in the running events longer than the 200.
Sweeps in the 400, 800, 1500, 5000 and 55HH were too much for the Alumni.

The Varsity represented itself well with outstanding performances in the 800
and 5000 meter races. Sean Montgomery, recovered from his 4:02.6 1500 victory,
led the attack in the 800 with a 1:55.83 and was closely followed by Brian
Anderson (1:57.27), Alan Raphael (1:57.41) and Mark Jeunnette (1:57.81). In
the 5000, trailing Nolan were Dan Feldman in 15:00.50, Albert Liu (15:36.33)
and Ben Schmeckpeper (15:52.83).

Zach Traina not only won both the 55 and 200 meter races, he tied the 200
meter freshman record in the 200 with a 23.31 effort. Craig Mielcarz did not
set any records but he did win the high jump in 6-6 and the high hurdles in
8.19 while placing 3rd in the long jump at 20-9 1/4.

Other New England Division III qualifying performances were turned in by Dan
Kwon in the pole vault (13-6) and Marios Michalakis in the weight throw (46-4
1/4).

The MIT trackmen are off for exams next week and then leave for their holiday
break. The next meet will be a home contest on January 12 versus Coast Guard,
Fitchburg State and Southern Maine in the Beaver Relays.

RETURN TO INDOOR


**MIT STARTS SEASON OFF WITH CONVINCING WINS OVER BATES AND COAST GUARD**



January 19, 2002

Two NCAA qualifying performances, 14 new or better New England Division III
qualifying marks and 42 season bests highlighted the first regular season
scoring meet of the year. MIT took the lead in the first event and never let
up as they defeated Coast Guard and Bates, 204 to 92 to 56 respectively.

The horizontal jumpers, led by freshmen Austin Neudecker and Tom Hoover, put
it together to show what MIT jumpers can do. Hoover, winning the Long Jump
with a 21-9 1/2 effort, led 6 MIT jumpers over 20 feet, with three of them
leaping at least 21 feet to take 6 of the top 7 places. In the Triple Jump,
Neudecker led the way with a 43-02 leap to win the event.

The vertical jumpers did pretty well also. The high jumpers held their own
with Rick Rajter matching the height of 6-6 of winner Craig Mielcarz for a new
personal best. Neudecker had a good day in the High Jump as well, taking 4th
with a season best of 6-2. In the Pole Vault, Dan Opila earned 3rd place
behind teammate Nate Ball with his first 13' effort of the season.

Despite this seasons top two sprinters (freshmen Zach Traina and Jim Lin)
sitting out the meet with slight injuries, MIT still swept the top three
places with Robbie Gray out front with a 6.84 performance. Taking up the slack
for the missing Traina, Matt Lehman and Yuval Mazor took on the additional
duties of the 200 after their primary efforts in the 400 and 600 respectively.
Lehman ran a PR of 23.54 for 2nd place and was closely followed by Mazor in
3rd with 23.78.

Both Lehman and Mazor took care of their first events with typical efficiency.
Lehman did not get a season best, but took second with a 51.17 behind Nate
Swardson of Coast Guard, the winner of the 200 as well. Mazor ran a personal
best in the 600 with a 1:23.27 to earn a victory in a race that was taken out
in 25 seconds by a Bates College runner.

In the middle distance events, Sean Montgomery took control in both the 1500
and 800 meter events and ran away for easy victories. In the 1500, the first
running final, Brian Anderson took the lead with a fast pace, coming through
quarter splits of 64, 2:09 and 3:12 before Montgomery took over and cruised
home with a 3:58.04 victory, missing provisional national qualifying by .04
seconds. Dan Feldman tried the shorter distance for the first time this season
and proved up to the task with a 3:59.65 for second. Anderson finished 3rd in
3:59.86. In the 800, Montgomery took the lead and ran 28 point for each 200,
finishing first in a nationally qualifying time of 1:54.93. It was Anderson's
turn in the 1000. Even though Brian ran a fast early pace of 61 and 2:02, Matt
Dowthit of the Coast Guard Academy took the lead during the 4th 200. Anderson
let him take it, but came back with a 30 second last lap to run 2:32.20 for
the victory.

Sean Nolan took control of the 5000 at the gun, running mile splits of 4:42,
9:29 and 14:16 to run a PR of 14:50.93 to lower his NCAA qualifying
performance. Albert Liu had a good battle for 2nd, prevailing by less than a
second in 15:36.69 after a 35 second last lap.

The throws did not go as well as hoped, partially because of the domination by
Bates College, particularly in the Weight Throw. The one bright spot was a
personal best of 42-3 by Francisco Cruz in the Shot Put. Next week, the
Engineers travel to Williamstown to face the Ephs from Williams along with RPI
and Westfield State. In order for the men from MIT to come away with a victory
in this one, the throwers will have to hold their own against the favored
Ephs.

RETURN TO INDOOR


**Engineers Lead Way in Beaver Relays With Championship Qualifying Marks**

January 12, 2001

The MIT Men's Track team led the way in the Beaver Relays with 13 New England
Division III qualifying performances and 2 NCAA Division III qualifying marks.
In addition, a new freshman record was established in the 200 and another
nearly made in the pole vault. Zach Traina, ran 23.16 to smash the record in
the 1 lapper by .15 seconds. Nate Ball, after making 14-6 in the vault,
attempted 14-9 in an effort to get the 14-8 record. After a poor plant on his
second attempt, which almost led to an injury, Nate did not seem to have the
same aggressiveness on his final effort. It is just a matter of time before
the record falls this season.

MIT hosts this annual invitational meet, which is non-scoring, features a
pentathlon in the morning and gets the cobwebs out after a long holiday break.
The meets results showed what you would expect, some worked hard over the
holiday and some did not.

The goal for the Division III pentathletes was to score at least 2900 points
so they could qualify for the New England Division III Championships in
February. Rick Rajter, returning just this week from a 7 week layoff due to
back problems, led the way for the Engineers with 3344 points. Rick lost at
least 200 points in the 1000 meters due to his lack of endurance, but should
have that back in a few weeks. En route to his score, Rick also qualified in
two other events with a hurdle time of 7.95 and a high jump of 6-4.

Craig Mielcarz did pretty well himself in the pentathlon with a score of 3267,
jumping 6-8 3/4 during the high jump portion to qualify provisionally for the
NCAA Division III Championship. Rookie, Victor Williamson, participating in
his first pentathlon scored 2916 to squeak into the Championship. Missing the
mark by 1 point was freshman Tom Hoover, and Adrian Townsend missed the magic
total by 24 points. Two time Div. III Championship scorer, Peter Bluvas,
missed the competition due to a sore hamstring.

In the 35 pound weight throw, Chris Khan threw 52-1 to provisionally qualify
for the NCAA meet. After missing last year due to injury, Chris is making the
most of his freshman year of eligibility. He also threw 44-7 in the shot put
as he won both events. Also throwing well was sophomore David Saylor who threw
46-0 1/4 with the weight to qualify for the NE Div. III meet. Transfer Dale
Cotton, threw 41-4 1/2 in the shot after not throwing in over 20 months.

In the vault, In additional to Ball jumping 14-6, Dan Kwon cleared 14-0 to
qualify for both the NE Div. III meet and the All New Englands.

The Techmen showed a lot of depth in the dash with 5 sprinters breaking 7.00
in the 55 meter event. Zach Traina led the way with a 6.72 PR and was followed
by Marc Washington with a 6.87 after missing 6 weeks due to an ankle sprain.
Robbie Gray ran 6.91, Brandon Hohm 6.99 and Dave Kloster 6.99.

Yuval Mazor and Matt Lehman both broke 51 seconds for the first time indoors,
running 50.79 and 50.89 respectively. Freshman Gabe Sanchez ran 52.41 to show
his hard work is starting to pay off. The three combined with freshman Jesse
Alejandro to run a very respectable 3:26.11 in the 1600 Relay.

Junius Ho won the 55HH event with a technically sound race, that was not quite
as fast as it looked, as he ran away from the field with a 8.26 clocking.

Brian Anderson took the lead in the 800 and never looked back, running 1:55.36
to win by over 4 seconds. Alan Raphael finished second in 1:59.60. Mark
Jeunnette ran 2:00.46 for third and George Hanson ran a very competitive
2:01.13 for fourth.

Sean Montgomery was in great control of the mile, running 63 second splits
threw the first three quarters, but then fell off at the end, running 4:18.30
for an easy victory.

The distance runners did their job, winning both the 3000 and 5000 meter runs.
Dan Feldman won the 5000 with a 15:13.75 and Sean Nolan ran a 8:42.27 in a
comeback kick to catch Ian Bartonicek from the Coast Guard Academy at the line
by .02.

Next week, the team is again at home as they play host to Bates College and
the Coast Guard Academy. This will be the first intercollegiate scoring meet
of the season.

RETURN TO INDOOR


**MIT GOES THROUGH FINAL TUNE-UP FOR NATIONALS**

March 1-2, 2002

MIT Men's Track and Field team went through their final tune-up prior to the
NCAA Division III Championship to be held next weekend when they went to Tufts
University for the ECAC Division III Championship.

The ECAC Division III Championship has a unique position in track and field.
The placement of the championship, one week after a much more challenging All
New England Championship, and one week before Nationals, guarantees that most
teams are not going to treat it as a championship but more as a last chance
qualifier and final tune-up. There are a few schools who take advantage of the
opportunity and go for the championship team title. On the other end of the
spectrum, there are some colleges that are denying athletes the right to
participate in these championships unless they have the ability to advance to
the Nationals the week after.

Preferring to prepare for the short outdoor season, MIT only entered the
individuals who either were trying to qualify for nationals or who already had
and were just staying sharp. Sean Montgomery, Sean Nolan, and Dan Feldman,
qualifiers in the 1500, 5000 and 5000 respectively, rested their legs and did
not race at all.

Justifying the team's philosophy, Nathan Ball set the freshman record in the
Pole Vault with a 15-1 effort, which also provisionally qualified him for the
NCAA Championship. "Although it will take a vault of at least 15-6 to make
Nationals, it was nice for Nathan to get over the 15' indoor barrier," said an
enthusiastic Coach Taylor.

On Friday, Craig Mielcarz could not get into the rhythm in the High Jump.
Although he jumped 6-9 in practice and nearly cleared 6-11 earlier in the
week, Craig was unable to go beyond 6-7 in the competition. Craig's season
best of 6-8 3/4 may be enough to get him to Nationals.

In the 400, Yuval Mazor looked ready to run the 400 leg in the DMR at
Nationals, as he ran a 50.85. Jesse Alejandro, coming back from a suspected
strep throat, ran the 500 but developed a blister early in the race and ran
cautiously so as not to risk any further disruptions in training, finishing in
1:10.73. In the 800, Mark Jeunnette showed he is ready as an alternate in the
DMR with a season best of 1:56.95. Brian Anderson went out strong, coming
through the 600 in 1:22, but faded a bit to finish in 1:54.72.

The team competes in Ada, Ohio at Ohio Northern University on Friday and
Saturday, March 8-9.

RETURN TO INDOOR


**MIT MEN'S TRACK FINISHES 2ND IN GREATER BOSTON MEET**

**Middle Distance and Distance Aces Run Up the Score**

February 2, 2002

In 1992, the Greater Boston Championship (GBC) was disbanded. What used to be
a very exciting track and field meet, pitting the area colleges against one
another is back. Boston University hosted the renewed championship.
Northeastern University took control of the meet early on with a combination
of strength in the field events, sprints and hurdles to total a score of 133.5
points. MIT, powered by the 800-5000 events, in which they scored 40 of their
81.5 points, placed 2nd, just ahead of Harvard with 79 points, BU with 51,
Bentley with 12 and Brandeis with 2 points.

After the all out effort last week against Williams College, MIT was careful
to rest any athletes who were ill or even a little injured. Without a few of
their top performers, Tech did not expect to have such success against Harvard
and BU. In addition, MIT, uncharacteristically gave up some easy points,
particularly in the long jump due to poor performances.

What did go well were the middle distance and distance events. Sean Montgomery
and Brian Anderson started things off in the mile run. After a slow pace at
the half way mark, coming through in 2:08, Montgomery and Jochen Dieckfoss
from BU went at it for the next 800 meters. The two came through the three
quarter mark in 3:10 and kept picking the pace up. Montgomery was never able
to close the final 5 meters as Dieckfoss won in 4:10.31. Montgomery finished
in 4:11.65 to automatically qualify for the NCAA Championships next month.
Anderson fell off the pace with a quarter to go but still managed to even
split a 4:15.98 for 4th place, which provisionally qualified him for
nationals.

Forty minutes later, the two were back at it in the 800 meter run. This time
Anderson took the pace out, coming through splits of 27, 55 and 1:24.
Montgomery was the only one to go out with Anderson, slowly working his way up
to him with 250 meters to go. Montgomery took the lead a ran a personal indoor
best of 1:53.47 for the victory. Again, the time qualified him provisionally
for nationals, which handicaps the performances on banked tracks. Anderson
finished 2nd in 1:54.72, just missing provisional qualification.

The distance runners decided to go one up on the middle distance runners, with
both Sean Nolan and Dan Feldman smashing the varsity record with times of
14:32.68 and 14:33.80 respectively for 1st and 2nd place. Both performances
made the automatic standard for the NCAA Championship. Not to be overlooked,
freshman Ben Schmeckpeper found his groove and just missed provisional
qualification with a 4th place time of 14:56.66.

Second place performances were also achieved by Craig Mielcarz in the High
Jump (6'6"), Dan Opila in the Pole Vault (13'9") and Chris Khan in the Weight
Throw (54'4"), who improved his provisional qualifying mark for nationals.

Freshman Nathan Ball placed third in the Pole Vault, also clearing 13'9". The
two relay teams, DMR and 1600 Relay, both placed third. On the DMR, Jesse
Alejandro showed he is getting back to his 800 form with a 1:56 split. In the
1600 Relay, the quartet of Yuval Mazor, Matt Lehman, Gabe Sanchez and
Montgomery ran a provisionally qualifying time of 3:20.45 for their fastest
effort of the season.

Additional scores and personal bests were achieved by; Mazor and Lehman in the
400 with respective times of 50.18 and 50.52 for 4th and 6th place, Marios
Michalakis earning a 6th in the Weight Throw with a 46-11 effort, Francisco
Cruz with a 42-8 3/4 heave in the Shot Put for 6th place, Austin Neudecker and
Victor Williamson combining for 4th and 5th in the Triple Jump with respective
leaps of 43-0 1/2 and 42-10 1/4, Dan Kwon with a 6th place leap of 12-3 1/2 in
the Vault and a tie for 6th by Rick Rajter in the High Jump with a 6-2 effort.

Next week, MIT will split their squad, sending a loaded DMR, Craig Mielcarz in
the High Jump and Zach Traina in the 200, to BU for the annual Valentines
Meet, and hosting the MIT Coed Invitational for Coast Guard, University of
Rochester, Colby College, Connecticut College and WPI.

RETURN TO INDOOR


**TECH TRACK PLACES 13TH AT NATIONALS**

March 8-9, 2002

MIT Men's Track team went to Ohio Northern University with the expectation of
placing among the top 5 schools. Although they returned with All-Americans in
three events, they were unable to capitalize on their high seeds. They placed
third in the Distance Medley Relay, an event in which they were seeded 1st,
6th in the 1500 where they were seeded 3rd and 6th in the 5000 where they were
seeded 2nd and 4th. All in all, it was a disappointing end to a very
successful indoor season.

Chris Khan, a sophomore, who due to injury last year is in his first indoor
season and is only a freshman from an eligibility point of view, was seeded
10th in the 35 lb. Weight Throw. Chris had a great series in the trials,
throwing 55-9 to move into 9th place, good enough for finals. While re-
measuring the weights due to an apparent record throw, it was realized that
that weight and all the other Gill weights no longer measured in due to a
stretching of the bag that holds the weight. Although Khan did not use this
weight, most of the throwers did. In the finals, no Gill weights were allowed.
Six of the throwers still threw farther than Khan so the type of weight used
may have made a difference in the distance thrown but not much of a difference
in the places.

Sean Montgomery, nursing a strained adductor muscle, was the next Tech
performer to compete when he took to the track in the 1500 trials. Montgomery,
in his final season of eligibility, was determined to secure the championship
that has eluded him. He ran a controlled race, saving as much as possible for
the DMR later in the evening. He ran a 3:56.52 to advance to the final the
next day.

The much anticipated DMR was the final event of the first night. MIT was the
top seed by virtue of their 9:53 performance run at Boston University a month
before. Brian Anderson '04, started things off as well as could be expected
with a well paced 3:01 1200 leg. Yuval Mazor, a senior, got the job done with
a 49.9 leg to keep MIT in 2nd place. Freshman Jesse Alejandro let the
magnitude of the Championship get the best of him as he fell from 2nd to 5th
in the final 400 of his 800 leg. Alejandro ran a 1:59 split to keep MIT in
contention. Montgomery got the baton and immediately went to work on regaining
the lost positions. He ran a 60 first quarter to move into 4th and a 2:03 to
move into 3rd. However, at this point, the fast pace of the leaders combined
with the injury and earlier race took a toll on him. Montgomery finished in
3rd place with an overall time of 10:02.35.

On Saturday, things led off with the 1500 finals. The race was set up
perfectly for Montgomery as the early leaders took it out in 60 at the 400. In
perfect position at 61, Montgomery moved up to the leaders at the 800 with a
2:04. The pace slowed but Montgomery was on the shoulder of the leader with a
3:08 1200. With just over one lap to run, Montgomery made a move to take the
lead, was denied the position, and he seemed to lose everything. The final 200
he went from 2nd to 6th, finishing with a 3:55.69.

The 5000 was a race MIT hoped to capitalize on, but the confidence was perhaps
not what it should have been. While Sean Nolan '03, and Dan Feldman '02, were
seeded 2nd and 4th, they ran those times a month before, prior to both getting
sick three week ago and missing some valuable training time. They started the
race with a moderate pace of 70-71 second quarters, which led them to the
first mile in 4:41. There was a lot of bumping, which seemed to have an effect
on Nolan, who started to fall back at the 2 mile, which was a 9:29. Feldman
did not respond to the leaders, who continued the 70-71 pace, but he
maintained 72s through 2 1/4 miles. After two quarters of 73, Feldman picked
it up again as he moved from 9th to 6th in the final 600 to finish in 14:51.14
and his first track All-America award.

While it may have been a disappointment to the Engineers, they nevertheless
should be proud of the undefeated season, tie for the New England Division III
Championship, and 6th place finish in the All New England Championship.
Earning All-America in three events, and missing by one place in another, caps
a great year of indoor track and field for MIT.



RETURN TO INDOOR


**MIT AND WILLIAMS TIE FOR NEW ENGLAND DIVISION III TITLE**

February 15-16, 2002

MIT and Williams split the indoor title the last two years with MIT winning in
2000 and Williams winning last year. This year, it seemed fitting the two
track and field power houses would finish the two day championship tied, each
with a score of 150.5 points.

MIT, winners of the quad meet at Williams earlier this season, was hoping to
rely on depth and numbers to win the title. The clearest example of this was
the first event, the pentathlon. MIT entered seven athletes in the event,
seeded 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8 and 9. With eight scoring places this year, MIT hoped
to garner six of the eight places. After a spectacular day of competition, MIT
had indeed set a new standard in dominating an event ,with a clean sweep of
the first 7 places to score 38 points. Event champion Rick Rajter and runner-
up Craig Mielcarz coasted in the event with hopes of saving something for the
next day. Rajter took only 1 long jump, 4 high jumps, and jogged the 1000 over
twenty seconds slower than his best. Mielcarz took 2 long jumps, 5 high jump
attempts and jogged around the oval with Rajter. Peter Bluvas, Tom Hoover,
Junius Ho, Victor Williamson and Adrian Townsend took the next five places,
all scoring over 3000 points.

MIT knew they had spent their strength, and that Williams' strength would come
in the Shot Put and the dashes. This was indeed the case as the Ephs took the
top three and eighth places in the shot put as well as first and fifth in the
55 to garner a total of 40 points to make up the difference in a hurry.

In the jumps, Williams outscored MIT 30-25 by taking three of the four events.
MIT was unable to seize an opportunity in the long jump. MIT had five of the
16 entries, but only one was seeded to score and that was eighth. Mielcarz
showed he had indeed saved something from the day before as he secured 8th
with a jump of 20-7 3/4 off the very unforgiving Bates runway. MIT had 4
jumpers over 20', but none could really pop a good one to break through.
Williams managed a 4th place after being seeded 3rd.

In the Triple Jump, Austin Neudecker came through on his final attempt to jump
44-11 1/2 for 3rd place. Williams was seeded to get 6 points but came up with
7 as they had a low seed make the finals and add to their total.

Mielcarz jumped well in the very talented High Jump field (five national
qualifiers) with no misses through 6-5. However, at 6-7 he needed two attempts
and was unable to clear 6-9 despite very good hip height on his final attempt.
Seven jumpers cleared 6-7 and unfortunately for Tech, Gairy from Williams was
one of them, and he did so on his first attempt to secure 5th place to 7th for
Mielcarz.

The Pole Vault went better than expected for MIT. When Dan Opila broke his
nose the week before, there was still hope he would be able to compete, but
that was not the case. Losing the 6th seed was a blow to the Engineers, but
freshman Nate Ball won the event with an easy clear at 14-6 and was supported
by a tie for third from Dan Kwon at 14-0. The problem was that Williams
College provided the competition and they took 2nd and a surprising tie for
3rd. MIT outscored Williams 15.5 to 13.5.

In the other throwing event, the 35 lb. Weight Throw, Chris Khan showed his
rookie skills with a PR of 56-1 1/2 on his last throw for 2nd place. Marios
Michalakis pulled off an upset with a 8th place to give MIT 9 points compared
with the 5 they were seeded for. Williams, seeded 6th and 7th, got just that,
for 5 points.

The battle on the track was just as intense. In the first final, the 1500,
where three of the top four milers in the country were going to go at it, Sean
Montgomery let Ryan Bak from Trinity get away midway through the race and was
unable to reel him back in. Finishing second, Montgomery ran a 3:55.49 to move
up from his 3rd place seed. Brian Anderson, seeded 4th, did not run his
patented race and fell victim to running someone else's race. Anderson did not
place, leaving MIT 3 points short of their seed.

In the High Hurdles, it took sub 7.95 to make the finals, which Rick Rajter
barely achieved. To run a season best the day after a pentathlon, while
nursing a back injury all season took a lot of desire. Rajter hung in there
and finished 7th in the finals to give MIT 2 more points than they were seeded
to get.

Beginning with the 600, MIT made a huge bid to steal the championship. Yuval
Mazor won the 600 title from teammate Jesse Alejandro by just thousandths of a
second, and were backed up by a 5th place from Mark Jeunnette to score 22
points, 5 more than they were seeded to get.

Not to be outdone, Montgomery showed what he can run like when he does not
think about his opponents as he took the lead at the start and never looked
back in the 800. Montgomery ran a 1:53.76 while easing off at the finish to
win easily over Reilly of Williams. Both were seeded where they finished.

Anderson came back in the 1000 and ran the way he should have in the 1500,
opening up a 10 meter lead at the 200 mark and running even, high 29 second
splits to finish in first with a time of 2:29.59. Anderson had been seeded
3rd, thus making up the three points he lost in the 1500. Williams was seeded
1st and 5th and finished 2nd and 4th to lose only 1 point.

In the 200, freshman Zach Traina, made a successful return from his early
season hamstring pull by making the finals in 23.22. Zach then showed what he
is made of by further lowering his freshman record with a 22.95 effort, good
for 7th place. Traina's effort gained MIT 1 more point than they were seeded
to get.

Things looked put away with only the two distance races and relays to go. In
the 3000, Dan Feldman was seeded 6th, but despite having some asthma problems,
held on for 2nd place. Williams also moved up in the points as they were
seeded 8th and finished 4th.

Going into the 5000, MIT had a 19 point lead and were seeded to get 16 points
in the 5000. However, Sean Nolan was ill and was not able to respond as he has
all season. Running with all he had, he managed to hold on to a 4th place
finish. Ben Schmeckpeper, seeded 3rd, was not able to handle the fast early
pace and tightened up to finish out of the scoring. Reutimann from Williams,
seeded 5th, came up with the victory to make up 5 points on MIT.

The Distance Medley Relay was not one in which MIT was planning on scoring in
despite having the fastest time in the country so far this year. The reason
was not enough bodies to cover all the relays, particularly the longer legs of
the DMR. Nevertheless, a slow field would have allowed the Engineers to score
had it not been for over ambitious pacing in the last two legs of the race.
Williams finished 2nd in the race while MIT did not score to cut the lead to
6.

MIT has won the 1600 Relay in the last 4 New England Division III
Championships. However, this time, two of the four legs had already run 2
races, and of the other two, one was recovering from a stomach virus and the
other from a tight hamstring. The result was a bad first leg, which put MIT
well back in the pack. Matt Lehman made a fine move to bring the team up to
third despite being ill, but that was soon lost on the next leg. Sean
Montgomery was the anchor and was determined to close the gap but at the
handoff ran right into the back of the incoming Tufts runner who had already
handed off. The dead stop caused Montgomery some serious time, but he ran a 50
flat leg anyway. However, it was .31 out of 6th place. Williams won the relay
with a great effort from their runners to pull ahead by 2.

The final event was run in two sections. Williams, which had not put together
their best team all season, was forced to run out of the slower of two
sections. Nevertheless, Williams put their best effort forward, winning their
section with an effort of 8:03.64. MIT knew what they had to do. To tie, they
needed to win the second section with a time faster than 8:03. To win, they
had to hope another team would get the job done as well. Alan Raphael, running
fresh, ran a great 1:59.5 leg to give MIT a 10 meter lead. Mark Jeunnette,
running his 3rd race, showed he is rounding into the same form that produced a
1:55 last year, ran 1:58.8 to open the race up. Jesse Alejandro, also running
his third race, went out a little too quickly but held on despite the fatigue
to run a 2:00.7 leg. The answer would rest with Brian Anderson, who already
ran the 1500 and 1000 earlier. Brian left no doubts, running 1:56.4 to record
a 7:55.64 victory and a tie for the team title.

It is difficult to finish in a tie after fighting for two days. However, the
effort was superb, 6 victories were earned and the team showed their
character. Next week, the Engineers head to Boston University for the All
Division New England Championships.

RETURN TO INDOOR


**TECH TRACK RUNS TO 6TH PLACE IN NEW ENGLAND CHAMPIONSHIP**

FEBRUARY 22-23, 2002

For the first time in over a decade, the MIT Men's Track and Field team was
seeded to place among the top 5 teams in the all division New England
Championship held at Boston University this weekend. However, an injury that
caused the top seeded Distance Medley Relay to scratch, cost MIT a probable 10
points, which would have placed them in 4th.

Rick Rajter, stiff back and all, braved another pentathlon to finish 4th and
put MIT on the scoreboard. Unable to sprint because of his back, Rajter was
unable to produce a good hurdle performance, running 8.26 to start the event.
Of course, this also affected his long jump, which was only 19-8 1/4. Rajter
came through in the shot put, throwing 37-5 to move up in the field. High
jumping 6-2 3/4 won that portion of the event and moved Rajter into 2nd place
by 30 points. Despite a strong and gutsy 2:51 1000, Rajter fell back two
places to 4th with 3362 points, a season best.

Later in the first day, Chris Khan showed he is getting ready for nationals as
he placed 5th in the Weight Throw with a 55-4 1/4 effort. Khan was 4th going
into the finals but was unable to move up his performance despite his best
efforts.

Craig Mielcarz placed 6th in the High Jump with a 6-7 leap, good for Mielcarz
at BU. A venue that has always been difficult for Mielcarz, he seemed to be
showing his legs are ready for a great leap as he had plenty of hip height on
his last attempt at 6-9. Mielcarz hopes to reach the automatic qualifying
height of 6-9 3/4 at Tufts University next week in the ECAC Division III
Championship.

Sean Nolan was seeded first in the 5000 and the only question was had he
recovered enough from his illness to represent himself well. Working his way
up to the front, Nolan came through the first mile in 4:42 along with
teammates Dan Feldman and Ben Schmeckpeper. After two 72 second quarters, the
pace picked up to 70 for three quarters to come through the second mile in
9:24 while Feldman fell back to 9:27 and Schmeckpeper 9:36. Nolan tried to
break away but did not quite have the confidence to stick to the plan, slowing
and allowing the pack to catch back up. Quarters of 72, 74 and 73 showed no
one wanted it badly enough to take the risk. With 600 to go Nolan turned in a
quarter of 68 and a final 200 of 32 to put the race away with a 14:43.04.
Feldman, also coming back from an illness, closed with a 32 to finish 4th in
14:48.20. Schmeckpeper faded a bit but came back with 600 to go to finish in
15:08.92.

In the Mile Run Sean Montgomery ran 4:11 on back to back days. In his mile
trial, Montgomery casually ran behind the lead runners and opened up with a
400 to go to 4:11.04. In the final, Montgomery went for the win against Dan
Wilson of Connecticut, a 4:01 tomorrow. Wilson took the pace out with
Montgomery in tow, coming through the 400 in 59 and the half in 2:01. After
the 1000 mark, Montgomery showed signs of not running as aggressively but held
onto the pace. At the 3/4 mile mark Montgomery started to fade slightly but
came through in 4:03. Instead of keeping an aggressive pace, Montgomery slowed
in the final 300 and cruised in with another 4:11.00 for third place.

Non scoring, but significant efforts were turned in Yuval Mazor in the 400 and
Jesse Alejandro in the 500. Mazor ran a personal indoor best of 50.12 in the 2
lap race. Alejandro went out a little too quickly in the 500, passing through
the 400 in 50.9, but held on enough to run 1:06.33 to establish a new freshman
record.

In the meet's final event, the 3200 Relay, MIT was not only going for the win,
but also the 22 year old school record of 7:41.67. Brian Anderson led off the
relay the way he likes to run, from in front. Running splits of 26.9, 54.5 and
1:22.7, Anderson finished in a season best 1:53.21 official photo finish time.
Mark Jeunnette, showing he is back to last year's form, kept up with the teams
from Boston College and UConn, bringing the baton in with a 1:55.40 time.
Jesse Alejandro, going out a little too quickly (26.7) and making too dramatic
a move to take the lead at the 400 mark, nevertheless, finished with a 60
final quarter to run 1:55.50. Montgomery, back almost 15 meters at the
handoff, made up the difference too quickly, running 25.5 and 53.5 for his
first two splits. Attempting to pass at an inopportune time, Montgomery was
hung out on the curve and got bumped enough to throw his stride off and knock
him out of the race for first. He did however have the presence of mind to
bring the baton in in a new school record of 7:40.17, good enough for 3rd
place.

Next week, the team will mostly rest up for nationals but may compete some
individuals to work on speed or to improve their national qualifying position.
The prestigious IC4A meet will be held at the Reggie Lewis Center in Boston
and the ECAC Division III Championship will be hosted by Tufts University.

RETURN TO INDOOR


**MONTGOMERY'S 4:03 ANCHOR MILE CAPS OFF 9:53.16 DMR**

**Track Team Comes Together With Great Performances**

February 9, 2002

This weekend's meets were supposed to serve three purposes for the MIT
Engineers. One, the Distance Medley Relay team was going to try and qualify
for the NCAA Division III Championship in March. Two, the goal of qualifying a
total of seven pentathletes for the New England Division III Championship was
sought in order to continue the domination of that event for Tech. Three,
since both meets were non-scoring, the opportunity to rest, sharpen and in
some cases qualify for next weekend's championship, was a high priority.

Sean Montgomery made the first goal reality by running a 4:03 mile to anchor a
record breaking, national qualifying Distance Medley Relay in 9:53.16 at the
Valentine's Classic at Boston University. Sophomore, Brian Anderson led the
relay off with a 3:00.47 1200 leg, certainly worthy of headlines by itself.
Brian ran within 1 second of the varsity 1000 record en route to his 1200
split. Yuval Mazor followed up with a 49.96 400 and handed off to freshman
Jesse Alejandro with a healthy lead over the Syracuse Chargers. Jesse, very
nervous and thinking a bit too much, did not respond well to the Syracuse
runners 1:49 leg, falling off to 1:59 and well off the pace, but good for a
freshman in such a big race. Sean Montgomery took over, running a 57.7 first
quarter to make up half the distance. After coming through splits of 1:59 and
3:02, Sean caught the Syracuse team. Making two valid attempts to pass in the
final 300 meters, Sean was unable to do so, but did manage to close with a 61
quarter for a 4:03.74 anchor.

Back at MIT, the pentathletes took care of the second goal by stealing the
show in the morning session , placing 1-2-3-4, all scoring over 2900 points.
On the way, all four reached season or personal bests in the long jump and
three of the four had bests in the shot put. MIT has three pentathletes who
had already qualified for the New England Division III Championship this
coming weekend and they did not compete on this day. Of the four competing
today, Peter Bluvas had been injured in January when the others qualified.
Adrian Townsend (4th) and Tom Hoover (3rd) had just missed the 2900 mark in
their previous outing. Junius Ho (2nd) was participating in his first
pentathlon ever and showed he has a lot of potential. MIT now has seven
qualifiers in this event for this weekend's Championship.

Continuing to show the jumpers were back where they were supposed be, Robbie
Gray regained his form just in time for the Championships with a 21-6 1/2
victory. Freshman Austin Neudecker was not to be outdone, as he took the
victory in his specialty the Triple Jump. Austin got better each jump as he
closed out the competition with a 45-1 3/4 performance. Overall, fouls were
virtually nonexistent for the first time this season for the Engineers.
Freshman vaulters Nate Ball, Nestor Hernandez and Dan Walker all showed their
best at the right time. Nate cleared 14-6 and just missed clearing 15-1.
Nestor improved to 13-3 to qualify for next weekend's Division III
Championship. Dan cleared 12-6 for a big PR in his final meet this season.

Francisco Cruz found what he has been looking for for nearly two years when he
threw 44-2 1/4 in the Shot Put to place second. Chris Khan won the Weight
Throw with a 1 turn 52-11 throw, but could not put together a good two turn
effort. Marios Michalakis did not have that problem as he improved nearly
three feet with a 49-6 1/2 PR for second place. Obviously, the third goal was
accomplished as well.

On the track, numerous PRs were also being attained. Dave Kloster and Brandon
Hohm ran personal bests in the 55 dash with times of 6.88 and 6.98
respectively. Kloster came back in the 200 with another indoor personal best
of 24.39. Taku Iida ran a season best in the 800 with a 2:07.24. Sean Nolan
took a weekend off from the distance wars to try his speed at the 1500. The
pace was slow through 1200 meters with a split time of 3:16 but Sean still
managed a PR of 4:04.57. Jeff Billing ran a strong 3000 in 9:16.92 to show his
ability to race effectively from the 800-5000 distances. Craig Wildman broke
16:00 for the first time in the 5000 and did it in a big way with a 15:48.65
for second place behind teammate Albert Liu.

Next weekend, the team will travel to Bates College, in Lewiston, Maine for
the New England Division III Championship. The team won the meet in 2000, but
finished a close 2nd last year. They hope to regain the Championship as they
send 33 qualified athletes to get the job done.



RETURN TO INDOOR


**MIT RACES PAST WILLIAMS, RPI AND WESTFIELD STATE**

**Montgomery Helps MIT Avenge Last Year's Loss**

January 26, 2002

The MIT Men's Track and Field team jumped out to an early lead by leading
Williams in the first three events by a score of 68-17 and never looked back.
MIT won over the Ephmen by a final score of 253 to 198\. RPI finished third
with 97 points and Westfield State brought up the rear with a score of 40.

Since 1981, except for four seasons, either MIT or Williams has ruled New
England Division III. The rivalry and mutual respect has grown each year.
Williams College had won nine regular season meets in a row versus MIT,
although 3 of the last four were settled by less than 10 points. This year, it
appeared MIT had the edge over Williams with the depth of their squad.
However, what looked to be a strong sprint squad, has begun to disintegrate
over the past few weeks. Both freshmen sprinters (Zach Traina and Jim Lin)
went down with hamstring pulls and veteran, Marc Washington has been unable to
return to his previous championship form. With Williams strength in the
sprints, Coach Halston Taylor was concerned that if Williams got a little
momentum going early and then shut MIT out in the sprints, MIT may not
recover.

Fortunately, for MIT, Williams never got the early momentum. By design, MIT
loaded up the 1500 meter run, the first final. Sean Montgomery continued to
dominate his competition by taking the lead at the half way point from
teammate Brian Anderson and pushing it to the finish in a time of 3:57.44 to
provisionally qualify for the NCAA Championship. Montgomery was followed by
Brian Anderson in second, Sean Nolan in fourth and Dan Feldman in fifth to
take a 25-8 lead over Williams. The meet scored eight deep, with points being
awarded 9-7-6-5-4-3-2-1 to the respective places for individual events and
9-6-3 in the relays. No more than four from a school were allowed to score in
any event.

In the 55HH, MIT would have qualified five runners for the final, but with
only four being allowed to score, Peter Bluvas's 8.22 PR scored no points.
Victor Williamson knocked nearly two tenths of a second off his time, running
7.95 in the trials and 7.98 in the finals to place second behind an RPI
runner. Rick Rajter, whose hamstring was too tight to run the hurdles well,
nevertheless placed third with a 7.99 performance. Junius Ho finished 5th for
MIT after running a season best 8.19 in the trials and was followed by Craig
Mielcarz in 6th with a 8.23 final time. Williams was only able to score 2
points to MIT's 20.

Chris Khan upped his national qualifying mark to 53-9 in the Weight Throw on
his way to winning that event. Marios Michalakis (46-10) and David Saylor
(46-7) also had personal bests for MIT as they placed 3rd and 4th. Peter
Bluvas lent his skills to the event as well and earned a 6th place with a 39-3
effort. Williams College could only manage a 2nd place finish as one of their
throwers fouled out.

In the past, when MIT would get an early lead, Williams would dominate the
200-800 meter events and get back in the meet. MIT, aware of this, put their
best effort forward on the 9 laps to the mile track by outscoring the Ephmen
34-24 in the 400 and 600. In the 400, Matt Lehman and Gabe Sanchez lost the
battle for first, but came in 2nd and 3rd with times of 51.82 and 52.41. Yuval
Mazor ran a personal best of 1:22.98, but was also unable to garner first
place. Jesse Alejandro, moving a little too early in the race, finished 4th in
a very respectable 1:24.27.

In the field, too many fouls along with a number of technical problems
prevented MIT from winning the Long Jump. However, strong personal efforts
allowed Tech to score a draw with Williams in the event. No personal or season
bests were achieved but solid performances were given by Tom Hoover for 2nd in
21-7 1/2, Craig Mielcarz in 6th with 20-9, Victor Williamson in 7th with 20-7
1/2 and Austin Neudecker in 8th with 20-3 1/2.

In the High Jump, Mielcarz led the way with a winning jump of 6-7. Craig had
two very good attempts on 6-9 3/4 but just nicked the bar. Rick Rajter, whose
hamstring did not bother him in the high jump, cleared 6-5 and nearly achieved
6-7 for second. Neudecker claimed 5th with 6-1 and Tom Hoover had a season
best jump of 5-11 for 7th. MIT outscored Williams in the event 22-9.

The 55 dash was every bit as bad for MIT as expected. Jim Lin again pulled his
hamstring after running full practices for two weeks with no problems. Dave
Kloster made the finals and came through with a personal best of 6.93 to give
MIT a 6th place finish. Robbie Gray ran 6.94 for 8th. Williams scored 19
points to MIT's 4 to cut into the lead.

Williams had no answer for MIT's depth in the 800 and 1000 meter runs. In an
attempt to lessen the damage, Williams brought back 600 runners, Reilly and
Garvin to do battle in the 1000. Montgomery took the race out in a strong
pace, spreading the field and taking away the chance for either Reilly or
Garvin to place in the top two. Montgomery finished in 2:32.73 for the win for
his first effort of the year. George Hanson ran the best race of his season by
going with Montgomery for much of the race and holding on for a fine 2nd place
effort of 2:36.95. Craig Wildman finished in 4th with a 2:39.60. In the 800,
Anderson came back from the 1500 with an easy win in 1:58.21 and was followed
in 2nd and 3rd by teammates Alan Raphael and Mark Jeunnette in 2:01.40 and
2:01.54. The two events gave MIT a 43-20 edge.

The anticipated battle in the Pole Vault did not produce any spectacular
heights but it was nevertheless a great battle. Perry from Williams won the
event with 14-3 height. Freshman Nate Ball came through with a 13-9 leap for
2nd to continue his solid vaulting. Dan Kwon and Dan Opila lost 4th place on
misses to Carvalho from Williams but did claim 5th and 6th. Opila cleared 13-3
for the first time this season to qualify for the NE Division III
Championship. After 11 events the score was 199 to 119.

Two events that significantly cut into MIT's lead were the 200 and the Shot
Put. In the 200, the loss of Traina was obvious. Mazor ran a tremendous race,
coming back from his 600 PR with a season tying best 23.78 for 5th place.
Lehman added an 8th place to give MIT 5 points in the event to Williams' 20.
In the Shot Put, MIT was shut out. A loaded field produced 6 throwers over 45'
but Tech should have nevertheless scored 2 points. Williams took advantage of
MIT's weakness and scored 23 points to bring the score to 204-161.

Fortunately, MIT has a very deep distance squad. Even a sub par Feldman could
not prevent MIT from scoring 19 points in the 3000. Nolan lost a battle for
first to Reutimann from Williams but still ran a PR of 8:40.67. Feldman
feeling tired all day, closed strong to edge MIT freshman Ben Schmeckpeper for
3rd in 8:48.00 to 8:48.18.

With the strength in the 400-1000 events, the relays were not a contest. MIT
pulled away early in both relays to win the 1600 Relay in 3:29.15 and the 3200
Relay in 8:20.35. Even though the 4x800 pulled away from Williams College
early, they let RPI back into the race with sub par legs in the middle of the
relay. Alejandro brought it home in 2:02.5 for the victory.

The final event was the Triple Jump. All America Dwayne Alleyne from RPI led
the way with a 46-10 effort and left the battle for 2nd between Williamson and
Neudecker from MIT and Ho-Sang from Williams. Williamson managed to pull edge
out Ho-Sang on his 2nd best jump as they tied at 43-2. Neudecker finished with
43-0 for 4th. Townsend added a 6th place finish to give MIT a 14-10 edge in
the event and the 253-198 final score.

Coach Taylor was very pleased with the win and his team's effort. "The team
came here with a purpose and came through with 21 personal or season bests
despite the small track. We are fortunate to have a very good team with even
greater potential. Our fouls in the horizontal jumps, inconsistency in the
Shot Put and lack of production by the middle distance relays need to be
corrected if the team hopes to win the New England Division III Championship
in three weeks".

Next week, MIT goes across the river to BU for the Greater Boston
Championships, brought back to life this year after they were canceled after
the 1992 season. The competing teams include Division I schools; BU, Harvard
and Northeastern along with Division II Bentley College and fellow Division
III Institution, Brandeis.

RETURN TO INDOOR


