

**Alumni Race To Victory Against Varsity  
  
**

Going into the 1997 Indoor Track and Field Alumni Meet, the rebuilding Varsity
knew that if Bill Singhose '90 were to do his usual job of recruiting Alumni
back for the meet then they would be at the short end of the score at the end
of the meet. He did, and they did, by a score of 74-48.

John Wallberg '96 flew in from Texas to secure the victory in the 35# Weight
Throw with a heave of 54-09 1/4. John was followed by John-Paul Clarke '91 for
second place.

In the Long Jump, Ravi Sastry '98 won one of only three individual events won
by the varsity with a jump of 21-01 1/4. This jump forced Singhose to overdo
it and pull his hamstring on his last effort in an attempt to win the event.

Bill still had enough to win the Pole Vault (13-09), tie for 3rd in the High
Jump (5-08), place 2nd in the Shot Put (41-09 1/2), and place 2nd in the High
Hurdles (8.50). The other 17 alumni who competed more than made up for
anything Singhose was lacking.

In the High Jump, Andy Ugarov '95 won easily with a leap of 6-06. Andy was
supported by Singhose and Hung Hoang '96 at 5-08.

The 1500 was no contest for a fit Ethan Crain '95, as he took control with a
400 to go to win in 4:05.36. Gordon Holterman '86 borrowed some spikes to
assist him in taking 2nd place with a 4:09.40 performance.

Ravi Sastry won his 2nd event, albeit over an injured Singhose with 8.09 time
in the 55 Meter High Hurdles. Freshman Junius Ho almost overtook Singhose with
a 8.59 effort.

As usual the Alumni were unable to field an adequate 400 squad. Coach Taylor
said, "I guess I worked those 400 runners so hard while they were here that
they don't want to come back". The varsity swept the event led by Neal Karchem
'99 with a time of 53.53. Neal was followed by freshman Todd Rosenfield and
Martin Suresh '99.

In addition to Singhose garnering 2nd place in the Shot Put, Wallberg captured
1st place with a put of 45-05 and Clarke completed the sweep with a throw of
40-10 1/4.

The Alumni had back to back sweeps with a 1-2-3 finish in the Triple Jump.
Morio Alexander '96 led the way with a jump of 43-11 1/4. Andy Ugarov was next
at 42-07 1/4. Hung Hoang completed the sweep with an effort of 40-04 1/2.

Akin Aina '95 needed no help from his teammates, but perhaps a little
assistance from the finish evaluator. Akin took first place in the 55 Meter
Dash, literally edging out Ravi Sastry as they were both timed in 6.85
seconds.

Ethan Crain came back in the 800, but freshman sensation Sean Montgomery had a
little surprise in store. The plan was to follow Ethan in what was presumed to
be a slow pace and take the lead with 300 to go. Ethan predicted this and took
the pace out pretty hard, coming through the 400 in 58. Sean did not adapt the
plan to take the lead at 250, but stuck to the plan. In addition he did not
pass before the curve and got hung out in lane 2 for part of it. It was a
little too far to hold off the experienced Crain. Ethan passed Sean at the
finish as they finished 1:57.74 and 1:57.85 respectively.

Aina once again earned victory in the 200 Meter Dash in 24.29. The Varsity's
closest competitor was Karchem in 24.46.

The 5000 was a great race with Jesse Darley '95, Terry McNatt '87, and Arnold
Seto '96 doing battle with Mike Parkins '99 for 4000 of the 5000 meter race.
Darley slowed down to force Parkins to take the lead. Parkins did not pull
away, and shortly thereafter Darley and McNatt surged past Parkins for good.
Darley won in 15:19.19, McNatt was second in 15:20.34, and Parkins finished
the scoring with a 15:21.91.

Holding onto a little dignity, the varsity remained undefeated in this meet in
the 4x200 Relay. The Varsity team of Marc Bourget '01, Todd Rosenfield '01,
Sean Montgomery '01, and Neal Karchem '99 easily outran the Old Guys
(Alexander, Mason '95, Crain, and Aina), 1:38.58 to 1:40.48.  

_**Other Alumni competing in the meet:**_

Brad Geilfuss '94

Ed Patron '95

Satyen Shah '93

Isaiah Shalom '66

Dev Sinha '90  

Brian Moore '73 assisted in officiating the throwing events but declined
competition




**MIT GETS BACK INTO COMPETITION AFTER HOLIDAY BREAK WITH BEAVER RELAYS  
**

This past Saturday MIT hosted the annual Beaver Relays with Coast Guard,
Tufts, and UMass/Boston in attendance. The purpose of this non-scoring
invitational is simply to get the athletes back in the habit of competing
after the Holiday Break.

Tech showed that while they may have worked out on their own over the past
three weeks they certainly need some more practice at competing. With the Quad
Cup Meets beginning next week and the first one entertaining Williams College,
MIT used this meet to get themselves ready.

Leading the way in performance was Ravi Sastry '98 who won the 55 Meter Dash
with a time of 6.92, the High Hurdles (8.05), and earned second in the Long
Jump with a jump of 21-4 3/4.

Another winner was freshmen Todd Rosenfield in the 400 Meter Run with a very
competitive time of 52.70. Neal Karchem also placed in the 400, clocking a
53.53 performance.

Joel Ford '98 appeared healthy and recovered from an early season injury when
he won the 800 with a 2:00.78 effort. Freshman John Biesiadecki did not place
but showed promise by running 2:04.82.

Mike Parkins '99 got back on track by running 8:49.05 in the 3000 Meter Run.
Mike is the defending New England Division III Champion in the 3000. It looks
as though Mike will be a strong contender for the defense of his title.

MIT won three of the four relays. The Shuttle Hurdle Relay was anchored by
Sastry who pulled away from a close battle with Tufts. Tech walked away in the
1600 Meter Relay as Rosenfield, Leif Seed '99, Ford, and Karchem proved too
much for their competition.

In the Distance Medley Relay, Mark Strauss '01, Tony Pelosi '01, Sohail Husain
'98, and Parkins brought home the gold. Parkins anchored with a 4:25 mile.

MIT Pole Vaulters swept places 1-4 with Matt Potts '00 leading the way with a
12-6 jump. Following close behind were Sam Sidiqi '99, and Steve Lefkowitz
'00, both making 11-6.

The only other event won by MIT was Mike Butville '98 in the 35# Weight Throw.
Mike threw 51-1 1/2 as he once again flirted with the National Qualifying
standard.

Next week, the first of four consecutive Quad Cup Meets will see Tech go
against Williams, WPI, and UMass/Dartmouth at MIT.




**MIT PLACES 2ND AT NEW ENGLAND DIV. III CHAMPIONSHIP**



MIT was seeded 6th behind Williams, Bates, Bowdoin, Brandeis, and Amherst
going into the New England Division III Championships held this past weekend
at Bowdoin College. Performing true to tradition and form, the Engineers ran,
jumped, and threw their way to a 2nd place finish, two points behind Williams
College.

Leading the way for Tech was Ravi Sastry '98. Ravi competed in the pentathlon
on Friday, earning a 2nd place behind Williams' Sasaki-Scanlon with a personal
best 3221 points. In the Long Jump they saw each other again, but this time
Ravi got the upper hand with a season best jump of 22-00 1/4. Sasaki-Scanlon
jumped 21-4, but pulled his hamstring on his next attempt. This effectively
took the top seed out of the Pole Vault, and the 3rd seed out of the High
Hurdles. This opened the door for MIT.

The next final that MIT scored in was the Shot Put, where Patrick Dannen '98,
came through, placing 5th with a throw of 44-8 3/4 on his final effort. This
pulled Pat from 7th place, and came within a centimeter of 4th.

Mike Parkins '99, took the line in the 1500, the first part of a difficult
double, against a very quality field led by Amherst junior Rob Mitchell, a
4:03 miler. Mike ran a personal best of 3:59.24 to earn 4th place. Mike felt
terrible after the race, in part because he thought he should have placed
higher but also because of the fast early pace and jostling that took place in
the middle of the pack.

Sastry was up next in the High Hurdles. Ravi was seeded 1st and he did not
disappoint, running a personal best of 7.92 to win easily. Also scoring for
MIT was freshman Junius Ho, placing 6th with a personal best of 8.34.

At this point, it was shaping up as a 3 team race among Williams, MIT, and
Bates. A lot of Bates success would depend on the Pole Vault and the relays.
Williams was counting on a big 3000 race and some relays. MIT was hoping for a
lot of people to place a lot higher than they were seeded.

MIT did not have any entries in the 55, 200, 600, or 800 meters, choosing
instead to take marginal potential scorers and form some really strong relays.
Todd Rosenfield '01, ran a strong 400 in 52.26 but could not make the finals.

Joel Ford '98, running well come Championship time is as sure a thing as
having cold weather in the winter. Joel unfortunately had to compete against
Mitchell from Amherst and a top 800 runner who decided to run the typically
less competitive 1000. Having less speed than these other two, Joel took the
race out at an even 30 second per 200 pace. Leading the middle 600 meters,
Joel could not kick with the top two seeds and faded to 3rd in 2:33.88. Joel
was disappointed but it was a marvelously run race and about all he could
expect to do.

The Pole Vault was shaping up as quite a battle between Sam Thibault '00 and a
Bates vaulter. Thibault was ahead on misses as 6 vaulters cleared 13-06.
However, at 14-00, only the Bates vaulter cleared, giving him 1st place and
Thibault 2nd, which was a big help to the Engineers.

Mike Parkins was up for his second race, the 3000, but did not seem to be the
confident runner who laid to waste the rest of New England Division 3 this
season. Mike immediately went to the back of the pack and stayed about 10
meters off the leader. The pace was not too fast (70 second pace), but fast
enough to allow for good times. Mike stayed on pace until the 2000 meter mark
when the leaders picked up the pace. Mike let them go initially but battled
back to fight and win the battle for 6th place in 8:47.46. Williams placed 1,
3, 4 in this race to pull back ahead of MIT.

Most of the top runners chose not to run the 5000, thus leaving the door open
for Chris McGuire '00, who was planning on running much better than his 15:33
seed. Chris ran with the pack for the early part of the race as they went
through 72 second quarters for the first 2400 meters. The pace fell to 75s for
the next mile and a quarter, and Chris was content to sit and kick. Kick he
did, running his last 600 meters in 1:39, narrowly escaping a furious final
200 by a Tufts runner to win in 15:09.07. Williams managed to get 5th place,
putting them 8 points ahead of MIT and Bates going into the relays.

The Distance Medley Relay (DMR) was first on the schedule. Tech's team was
high in potential but untested in championships. Sohail Husain '98, led things
off by taking the lead in the 1200 leg. Sohail finished in second with a fine
3:14 split after having run his first quarter in 61. Chuck Van Buren '98,
dropped down from the 800 to run his first competitive 400 race. Chuck ran
great although he lost some ground to some better 400 runners. He came in 4th
with a 54.3 leg. Gus Blomquist '99, took the baton for the 800 leg, running a
well planned personal best of 2:02.5. Even though he ran a great race, Gus
handed the baton to freshman Phil Loiselle in 5th place. Phil went out hard
(62) and moved up well. By the 1200 mark Phil had moved up to 3rd and looked
like he may stay there. However, the Brandeis runner came back to kick past
Phil, putting MIT in 4th with a time of 10:38.18. Williams was 5th and Bates
did not score.

MIT had a very strong 3200 Relay, but needed to score in the 1600 Relay in
order for the 3200 Relay to have a chance of catching Williams. Ravi Sastry
got things started with a great 52.8 leadoff in his first 400 of the season.
Ravi was nursing a very sore ankle and went out very cautiously, but came on
very strong at the finish. Neal Karchem '99, took the baton in 6th and was
able to move up even with the 4th and 5th place runners, but MIT had to go all
the way outside to hand off for the second straight leg. By this point, Tech
had run about 15 meters further than the leading teams. Ed Tolson '01 ran a
solid 52.9 leg to move MIT into 5th and in a position to finish no worse than
6th overall. However, Todd Rosenfield '01, was passed almost immediately by
the runner-up in the open 400 and became frustrated at not being able to make
up ground on the pack ahead of him. This ultimately permitted Tufts University
to capture 6th place out of the slower section by 4 tenths of a second. Bates
did not score but Williams earned 3rd place thus clinching the New England
Division III Championship.

However, the 3200 Meter Relay still had to be run and there is a good story to
tell. MIT had not a fast 3200 Relay all season, primarily because there was
never a need in order to win a meet and there is usually only 1 section in
this event. Well, this time there were 12 teams entered, we were seeded 9th,
and our constitution only permits 1 section when there are 9 or fewer teams
entered. This meant that MIT would run in the slower, first section without a
great deal of competition.

As mentioned before, Tech had entered a very strong relay and was confident
they could defend their title in the event. Ken Walker '01, learning to run in
the front, ran a personal best 2:01 to put MIT in the lead. John Biesiadecki
'01, out most of the season with an injured quad, ran brilliantly considering
he opened with a 27 first 200\. John opened the lead to 50 meters with a 2:02
split. Taking the baton next was Joel Ford. Joel thrives in situations like
this. Opening up with 55 first quarter, Joel nearly lapped some teams as he
finished in 1:58. Leif Seed '99, injured for the entire season up until last
week went out hard knowing that every inch might matter when the faster
section ran. Leif began lapping the field as he also went out in 55. Leif
finished his race very strong in 1:57, giving MIT a total time of 7:59.78.
Tech anxiously waited for the fast section to run to find out if they would
win, not necessarily to see if they lost to Williams by 2 or 4 points. Amherst
College did not disappoint as they made it close enough that no one trusted
their stop watches or their ability to time quite that much. The final
announcement had MIT winning by .23 seconds, thus finishing 2 points behind
Williams College.








**

MIT Continues To Do Well In Championships**

**Ford and Relay Team Qualify for IC4As**





On Friday night, Ravi Sastry '98 equalled his 22'0.25" PR in the Long Jump and
placed 8th. In the High Hurdles Ravi scored the only points for MIT by placing
fourth in running just .01 off of his recent PR. He also won his trial heat
easily in the 55 Meter Hurdles in a PR :07.90, and ran 7.93 in the Semi-
Finals.

Joel Ford ran a strong 1000 Meter trial, clocking 2:31.91 and qualifying for
Saturday's final. Joel opened up much faster in the finals. He came through
the 400 in 57 seconds and the 800 in 1:58. However, Joel could not hold onto
the pace as once again he faded in the last 100 meters. Nevertheless he ran
2:30.81 and qualified for next weekend's IC4A Championship at Cornell.
Misfortune struck Sohail Husain '98, however, as he got tripped up and knocked
to the track early in the race, and was never able to regain contact with the
field, running 2:47.22 for his effort.

Neal Karchem '99 ran a lifetime indoor best in the 400 Meters, spinning the 2
laps in :52.08. Todd Rosenfield '01 fared not quite so well, with a :52.64

In the 5000 Meters, Sophomore Chris McGuire raced to an indoor PR 15:02.47,
moving him up to 6th on the All Time MIT Indoor List, and finished 8th. Junior
Mike Parkins started like a house afire but ended up paying a price for his
early aggression, and finished in 15:12.19.

The Distance Medley Relay squad did establish the Freshman Indoor Record for
that event, but they were hampered by being in the seeded heat. Division 3
freshmen taking on Division 1 seniors seems like a bit of a mismatch on paper,
and it was. Still, the gallant foursome of Ken Walker (3:14.0), ToddRosenfield
(:52.4), John Biesiadecki (2:03.0), and Phil Loiselle (4:32) combined for a
respectable 10:41.77

In the Weight Throw, junior Jason Dailey fell victim to a disobedient right
leg, and couldn't find the power position necessary for superior throwing. His
45'10" toss was well off his season best of 50'8".

The 4x800 Meter Relay turned in an excellent performance to close out the day.
Running in the unseeded heat, Ken Walker led off with a personal best 2:00.0,
that put us right in the thick of things. John Biesiadecki unleashed a
beautiful pass-on-the-inside, then-on-the-outside spurt in his final 100
meters and gave us the lead with an indoor best 1:57.6. Joel Ford then
rocketed away with a typical Joel Ford quarter (:53.8) and blasted open a
large lead with his 1:57.0 split. Leif Seed '99 then stormed his four laps in
an impressive 1:54.4 for a team time of 7:49.10. That mark easily surpasses
the IC4A qualifying time, and earns the quartet the right to compete at
Cornell University next weekend against the best teams in the east.








**Tech Prepares For New England Division III Championships With Numerous
Personal Best in Quad Cup Invitational  
**

The Quad Cup Invitational was set up as a Men's and Women's non-scoring meet
involving only quad cup teams. The idea was to have a meet the week prior to
the New England Division III Championships that allowed for good competition
without the pressure of trying to double and triple people in order to win a
meet.

At the time that the rosters were due it appeared that we may have to cancel
the meet due to insufficient teams being entered, particularly women's teams.
Finally, enough men's teams entered, but we did have to cancel the women's
meet because only 1 team entered.

The meet provided great competition with teams from Williams, Springfield,
Middlebury, and Plattsburgh State from New York. All together 17 season or
personal bests were established.

The long sprint events were good ones for MIT. In the 200 Meter Dash, Marc
Bourget '01, ran a season best of 24.76 to end his season on a good note. In
the 400, Ed Tolson '01, Ashley Clayborne '99, and Adam Winkel '01, all ran
season bests of 55.11, 55.37, and 55.78 respectively.

The 800 alone had 4 Tech runners with season or personal bests. Leif Seed '99,
led the way with a season best of 2:00.68 in only his second week of running
this season. Ken Walker '01, continued to run faster each week with a personal
best of 2:01.73. John Biesiadecki '01, returned to competition with a band as
he lowered his season best with a time of 2:03.91. Finally, Gus Blomquist '99,
lowered his personal best a few hundredths to 2:04.53.

In the 1000 Meter run, Phil Loiselle '01, ran a personal best of 2:36.59 in a
winning effort. Ray Molnar '00, continued to lower his time each week with yet
another personal best of 2:40.71.

Sohail Husain '98, led three Tech runners to PRs with a 4:10.83 clocking. Also
running personal bests were Kaoru Aou '00, and Albert Hung '01, running
4:31.92, and 4:36.34 respectively.

In the 3000 Meters, Chris McGuire '00, showed that he is ready for the
Championships with an easy victory in 8:49.50. Liyan Guo '01, also ran a
personal best with a time of 9:14.97.

There were only 3 bests in the field events, but they were big ones. In the
Pole Vault, Sam Thibault '00 set a personal best with a vault of 13-09. Sam
Towell '00, set a season best of 12-3 to probably make the NE Div. III field
next week. Sam had major wrist surgery and had to have pins in his wrist for
many months after a year ending vaulting injury last indoor season.

The other personal best was nearly a 5 foot improvement in the Weight Throw by
Brian Wong '99, to 46-1 3/4.

Due to the meet nearly being canceled and the subsequent weakness in a few of
the fields, 5 runners went over to Boston University to run in the Valentine's
Day Classic. In the 400, Todd Rosenfield '01, ran a personal best of 51.97.
Neal Karchem '99, joined Todd in running an indoor personal best of 52.75.

In the 1000 Meter Run, Joel Ford '98, showed he is ready to challenge the
Varsity record in the event with a 2:30.22 season best.

Mike Parkins '99, tried to run a national qualifying time in the 5000 but got
caught in a slow paced section. Mike could not pick it up enough to make up
the time but did run a season best of 15:03.

Todd, Neal, Joel, and Martin Suresh '99, put together a season best 1600 Meter
Relay time of 3:29.68. This time will put Tech in the fast section of the
relay next week at the Division III Championships at Bowdoin.




**For Second Year in Succession, Williams Wins Meet in Last Event  
**

Last Year, the first Quad Meet of the season, Williams College hosted MIT,
Middlebury, and Norwich. The meet came down to the Pole Vault which had been
delayed. There were two vaulters remaining, one for MIT and one for Williams.
Whoever won the event would also win the meet. Williams won that meet by 1
point.

This year, MIT is definitely in a rebuilding year. However, Williams may still
be the best team in the region but they also lost a lot to graduation and
transfer. MIT again brought the meet down to the last event with a chance to
win. Williams again proved to have the competitive and talent edge as they
defeated Tech 230 to 222. UMass/Dartmouth was a distant third with 67 points,
followed by WPI with 65.

Quad Cup meets permit a school to enter up to 4 entries per event. Similarly
to the way dual meets were scored, 50% of the competitors or 8 places are
scored with the scoring being 9-7-6-5-4-3-2-1. Therefore each event has a
total of 37 points with any one team having the possibility of scoring 27
points if they sweep the first four places.

MIT began the meet by getting 18 points in the Weight Throw to Williams nine.
Mike Butville '98 led the way with a 49-0 1/2 effort for second place. Jason
Dailey '99 had a personal best of 47-11 for 4th, George Torres '99 followed
with a personal best 46-1 1/2 throw for 5th, and Brian Wong '99 also threw a
personal best of 41-11 for 7th place.

The Long Jump was going on at the same time but not with the same results.
Ravi Sastry '98 won with a personal best jump of 21-11 1/2 but the only other
place earned by MIT was an 8th place by Tyson Lawrence '01 with a leap of
18-10 1/2. Williams scored 16 points to keep the meet within 3 points.

The 55 Meter High Hurdles were the next finals to finish and Sastry continued
his day of personal bests with an effort of 7.94 to win easily. Also scoring
for Tech was Jeff Daniels '01 with a huge PR of 8.74. Williams scored 17
points to pull ahead by 1 point 42-41.

The 1500, typically MIT's best event, was hindered by a last minute injury by
Leif Seed '99. This prompted Tech to switch Joel Ford from the 600. Mike
Parkins '99 continued his dominance this young season by winning in a personal
best of 4:04.09. Ford followed in fifth, with freshman Phil Loiselle taking
6th in a personal best of 4:13.13, and Sohail Husain '98 garnering 7th in
4:15.48. Nevertheless, Williams outscored MIT by 1 point and lengthened their
lead to 2.

The 400 was won by MIT freshman Todd Rosenfield in 53.08. Neal Karchem
followed in third, running 53.93. Kamal Mokeddem placed 6th overall, running a
personal best of 55.03 out of the slow section. The Engineers outscored
Williams 18-7 in this event and retook the lead 77-68.

The High Jump was not a good event for either team as Williams cut the lead in
half by outscoring Tech 11-7.

Williams star sophomore thrower, Dave Stuhlsatz, won the Shot Put with a toss
of 52-11 1/2, but MIT outscored the Ephmen 16-15. Patrick Dannen '98 led the
way with a personal best of 43-7 for 2nd place. Also with a personal best was
Torres with a throw of 42-0 for 5th. Butville followed in 6th and freshman
Brian Rogers placed 7th.

The 600 was supposed to be a big event for Tech but an injury to Sean
Montgomery '01 and switching Ford to the 1500 left the Engineers with untested
ability in the event. Ed Tolson '01 was able to secure 4th with a 1:30.82.
Other MIT runners who placed were Gus Blomquist in 5th, Ashley Clayborne '99
in 6th, and Tony Pelosi in 8th. Despite the slow times, MIT only lost 2 points
to Williams and still led overall by 4.

MIT's only sprinter is hurdler/jumper Ravi Sastry. Ravi ran 6.88 to get 5th
place for Tech's only points. Williams scored 16 to take an 8 point overall
lead.

Williams College Decathlon All-American, Derek Sasaki-Scanlon won the Pole
Vault, but MIT took 2nd - 5th places to outscore Williams 22-15, and pull
within 1 point. Matt Potts '00 led the way with a personal best of 13-0.
Following were Sam Thibault '00 in 3rd, Sam Sidiqi '99 in 4th, and Steve
Lefkowitz '00 in 5th.

Ford came back in the 800 and won with a time of 2:01.77. Freshman Ken Walker
ran a great race and garnered 2nd place with a 2:02.23 personal best. Chuck
Van Buren '98 secured 4th place, and Jeff Billing '01 ran to 7th place. This
turned out to be the Engineers best event as they scored 23 points to Williams
13, thus giving MIT a 9 point lead.

Parkins followed Ford's effort with a win of his own in the 1000, running a
personal best of 2:37.22. Husain doubled back from the 1500 and earned 4th
place, and Ray Molnar '00 faded in the last lap but held on to 6th. MIT lost 2
points to Williams but maintained a 7 point lead.

MIT's weakness in the sprints showed up again in the 200. Although all of
Tech's runners ran season bests, they were only able to score 6th, 7th, and
8th places. Sastry led the way with 24.18. He was followed by Karchem and
Rosenfield. Williams now had a 3 point lead with only 4 events to go.

MIT needed some points and Parkins was asked if he could run sub 16:00 after
his already busy day, without getting hurt. He said he could and indeed he
did, running 15:44.08 for 4th. Chris McGuire '00 returned from the injured
list to run his first race of the season and get 2nd place with a 15:33.09.
Running personal bests were freshmen Mark Strauss, 15:51.63 for 5th, and Ed
Keehr 16:19.21 for 7th. The strategy worked and MIT now had a 5 point lead.

The Triple Jump did not work out the MIT's advantage as Williams outscored
Tech 14-7. Leading the way for MIT was freshman Kalpak Kothari with a personal
best of 41-2 1/2 for 5th place. Sastry was 7th with 38-3 1/2, and Lawrence was
8th. Williams now led by 2 with only the relays to go.

Because only 3 of the 4 teams declared for the two relays, the scoring was to
be 9-6-0. This of course meant that MIT would have to either beat Williams in
both relays or win one and have Williams finish 3rd (which was very unlikely).
The stage was set and the Johnson Athletic Center was rocking. One could
hardly hear anything as the Williams and MIT athletes were spread around the
track.

Tech decided to load the 1600 Relay with their remaining resources. Not having
Seed and Montgomery certainly limited the strategy. Tech remained right on
Williams back until 150 meters to go when Sasaki-Scanlon pulled away from
Karchem. The team of Rosenfield, Martin Suresh '99, Ford, and Karchem ran
3:34.02.

With only the 3200 Relay, MIT had to win and hope that Williams finish 3rd. It
was not to be. Tech fell behind at the beginning and never recovered. The
quartet of Husain, Walker, Van Buren, and Loiselle finished in 2nd with a
8:24.77.

Next week, the 2-1 Engineers travel to Bates to face Bowdoin, Colby, and
Southern Maine.




**TECH TAKES DOWN SPRINGFIELD AT HOME IN 3RD QUAD CUP  
**

MIT Men's Track and Field Team came off of a poor performance last week in
Lewiston against Bates College with a grand showing at home against
Springfield College in Cambridge. MIT began well and finished even better as
they outscored the Chiefs in the middle distance and distance events (800,
1000, 1500, 5000) by a score of 92-12.

Tech began with troubling results but okay scores in the Weight Throw, Long
Jump, and High Jump. MIT was down to Springfield 25-29 at that point and
really had not done too well. Ravi Sastry '98 won the High Jump with a leap of
6-0, and place 2nd in the Long Jump with a 21-2 effort. However, MIT only
scored 5 more points in those two events. WPI was actually leading at this
point with 33 points as they scored nearly half of their points in the first
three events.

Quad Cup scoring is 9 points for 1st place and 7,6,5,4,3,2,1 for the next 7
places respectively. Each school is allowed 4 entries per event, so it is
possible to score 27 points in an event.

In the 1500, Mike Parkins '99 led the 1,3,4,5 finish with a 4:02.41 solo
effort that put the Beavers ahead to stay. Following Parkins were Phil
Loiselle '01, Ken Walker '01, and Rich Rosalez '98.

Sastry remained undefeated in the High Hurdles with a 8.05 effort. Junius Ho
'01 picked up another 5 points with a personal best 8.52.

In the Pole Vault, once again MIT asserted their dominance with 23 1/2 points.
Leading the way was Matt Potts '00 with a vault of 12-06. Other place winners
for Tech named Sam were Sam Thibault '00, Sam Sidiqi '99, and Sam Towell '00.

Todd Rosenfield lost his first quad meet in the 400 but ran a personal best of
52.61 for 3rd place.

The 600 was far better for the Engineers than in previous meets. Moving Neal
Karchem '99 (4th with 1:28.38), and the return of Martin Suresh '99, led Tech
to 12 points in the event.

MIT has not done well in the sprints this winter but not because Sastry is not
running well and improving a lot. Ravi ran a big personal best of 6.78 to get
a close second.

If there was any doubt who was going to win this meet it evaporated after the
next two events (800, 1000). Mike Parkins remained undefeated with a 2:01.77,
and was followed by a personal best from Gus Blomquist '99 who ran a 2:05.04
for 3rd place. Also placing in 6th and 7th were Ed Tolson '01, and Ray Molnar
'00.

The 1000 was more of the same. Joel Ford '98 broke out of his slump with a
2:35.72 run for an easy victory. Personal bests by Sohail Husain '98
(2:38.55), Loiselle (2:41.15), and Walker (2:43.15) gave Tech 24 points in the
event.

The remaining field events, Triple Jump and Shot Put, were big surprises for
MIT. In the Shot, Patrick Dannen '98, threw nearly 1 1/2 feet further than he
ever has (45-01 1/2) for 4th place. Mike Butville '98 followed with his own
personal best of 42-09 for 6th. Kalpak Kothari '01 came from behind on his
last jump to win the Triple with a personal best of 41-05 3/4. Following
Kalpak were Tyson Lawrence '01 in 3rd and Ho in 6th.

The 200 continued to be a troubling event for MIT. Neal Karchem recovered well
enough from the 600 to snag 7th place but that would be it for the Engineers.

The 5000 saw a great finish by MIT. Chris McGuire ran away with the race right
from the beginning. However a great race developed for 3rd. Ed Keehr '01,
Liyan Guo '01, and Mark Strauss '01, had worked their way up to 3rd-5th
positions with a little over 3 laps to go. With 2 laps to go, McGuire lapped
them and the Westfield State runner they had just passed. When the bell rang
for the bell lap, the Westfield runner mistakenly thought it was for all of
them, not just Chris. He sprinted past all of them and stopped thinking he had
won only to find out that he had been lapped and was now losing 3rd-5th place.
He continued, but could not muster the will to catch the Tech runners.

The relays were a formality and MIT used them to give some people a good
workout. A dropped baton in the 1600 Relay gave Tech a last place finish and
no points. However, the 3200 Relay was a surprising victory as outstanding
efforts were contributed by Molnar, and Chuck Van Buren '98.

Next week, MIT is host in the final Quad Cup Meet of the season to rival
Tufts, and Coast Guard.


**Alumni Race To Victory Against Varsity ** Going into the 1997 Indoor Track
and Field Alumni Meet, the rebuilding Varsity knew that if Bill Singhose '90
were to do his usual job of recruiting Alumni back for the meet then they
would be at the short end of the score at the end of the meet. He did, and
they did, by a score of 74-48. John Wallberg '96 flew in from Texas to secure
the victory in the 35# Weight Throw with a heave of 54-09 1/4. John was
followed by John-Paul Clarke '91 for second place. In the Long Jump, Ravi
Sastry '98 won one of only three individual events won by the varsity with a
jump of 21-01 1/4. This jump forced Singhose to overdo it and pull his
hamstring on his last effort in an attempt to win the event. Bill still had
enough to win the Pole Vault (13-09), tie for 3rd in the High Jump (5-08),
place 2nd in the Shot Put (41-09 1/2), and place 2nd in the High Hurdles
(8.50). The other 17 alumni who competed more than made up for anything
Singhose was lacking. In the High Jump, Andy Ugarov '95 won easily with a leap
of 6-06. Andy was supported by Singhose and Hung Hoang '96 at 5-08. The 1500
was no contest for a fit Ethan Crain '95, as he took control with a 400 to go
to win in 4:05.36. Gordon Holterman '86 borrowed some spikes to assist him in
taking 2nd place with a 4:09.40 performance. Ravi Sastry won his 2nd event,
albeit over an injured Singhose with 8.09 time in the 55 Meter High Hurdles.
Freshman Junius Ho almost overtook Singhose with a 8.59 effort. As usual the
Alumni were unable to field an adequate 400 squad. Coach Taylor said, "I guess
I worked those 400 runners so hard while they were here that they don't want
to come back". The varsity swept the event led by Neal Karchem '99 with a time
of 53.53. Neal was followed by freshman Todd Rosenfield and Martin Suresh '99.
In addition to Singhose garnering 2nd place in the Shot Put, Wallberg captured
1st place with a put of 45-05 and Clarke completed the sweep with a throw of
40-10 1/4. The Alumni had back to back sweeps with a 1-2-3 finish in the
Triple Jump. Morio Alexander '96 led the way with a jump of 43-11 1/4. Andy
Ugarov was next at 42-07 1/4. Hung Hoang completed the sweep with an effort of
40-04 1/2. Akin Aina '95 needed no help from his teammates, but perhaps a
little assistance from the finish evaluator. Akin took first place in the 55
Meter Dash, literally edging out Ravi Sastry as they were both timed in 6.85
seconds. Ethan Crain came back in the 800, but freshman sensation Sean
Montgomery had a little surprise in store. The plan was to follow Ethan in
what was presumed to be a slow pace and take the lead with 300 to go. Ethan
predicted this and took the pace out pretty hard, coming through the 400 in
58. Sean did not adapt the plan to take the lead at 250, but stuck to the
plan. In addition he did not pass before the curve and got hung out in lane 2
for part of it. It was a little too far to hold off the experienced Crain.
Ethan passed Sean at the finish as they finished 1:57.74 and 1:57.85
respectively. Aina once again earned victory in the 200 Meter Dash in 24.29.
The Varsity's closest competitor was Karchem in 24.46. The 5000 was a great
race with Jesse Darley '95, Terry McNatt '87, and Arnold Seto '96 doing battle
with Mike Parkins '99 for 4000 of the 5000 meter race. Darley slowed down to
force Parkins to take the lead. Parkins did not pull away, and shortly
thereafter Darley and McNatt surged past Parkins for good. Darley won in
15:19.19, McNatt was second in 15:20.34, and Parkins finished the scoring with
a 15:21.91. Holding onto a little dignity, the varsity remained undefeated in
this meet in the 4x200 Relay. The Varsity team of Marc Bourget '01, Todd
Rosenfield '01, Sean Montgomery '01, and Neal Karchem '99 easily outran the
Old Guys (Alexander, Mason '95, Crain, and Aina), 1:38.58 to 1:40.48. _**Other
Alumni competing in the meet:**_ Brad Geilfuss '94 Ed Patron '95 Satyen Shah
'93 Isaiah Shalom '66 Dev Sinha '90 Brian Moore '73 assisted in officiating
the throwing events but declined competition **MIT GETS BACK INTO COMPETITION
AFTER HOLIDAY BREAK WITH BEAVER RELAYS ** This past Saturday MIT hosted the
annual Beaver Relays with Coast Guard, Tufts, and UMass/Boston in attendance.
The purpose of this non-scoring invitational is simply to get the athletes
back in the habit of competing after the Holiday Break. Tech showed that while
they may have worked out on their own over the past three weeks they certainly
need some more practice at competing. With the Quad Cup Meets beginning next
week and the first one entertaining Williams College, MIT used this meet to
get themselves ready. Leading the way in performance was Ravi Sastry '98 who
won the 55 Meter Dash with a time of 6.92, the High Hurdles (8.05), and earned
second in the Long Jump with a jump of 21-4 3/4. Another winner was freshmen
Todd Rosenfield in the 400 Meter Run with a very competitive time of 52.70.
Neal Karchem also placed in the 400, clocking a 53.53 performance. Joel Ford
'98 appeared healthy and recovered from an early season injury when he won the
800 with a 2:00.78 effort. Freshman John Biesiadecki did not place but showed
promise by running 2:04.82. Mike Parkins '99 got back on track by running
8:49.05 in the 3000 Meter Run. Mike is the defending New England Division III
Champion in the 3000. It looks as though Mike will be a strong contender for
the defense of his title. MIT won three of the four relays. The Shuttle Hurdle
Relay was anchored by Sastry who pulled away from a close battle with Tufts.
Tech walked away in the 1600 Meter Relay as Rosenfield, Leif Seed '99, Ford,
and Karchem proved too much for their competition. In the Distance Medley
Relay, Mark Strauss '01, Tony Pelosi '01, Sohail Husain '98, and Parkins
brought home the gold. Parkins anchored with a 4:25 mile. MIT Pole Vaulters
swept places 1-4 with Matt Potts '00 leading the way with a 12-6 jump.
Following close behind were Sam Sidiqi '99, and Steve Lefkowitz '00, both
making 11-6. The only other event won by MIT was Mike Butville '98 in the 35#
Weight Throw. Mike threw 51-1 1/2 as he once again flirted with the National
Qualifying standard. Next week, the first of four consecutive Quad Cup Meets
will see Tech go against Williams, WPI, and UMass/Dartmouth at MIT. **MIT
PLACES 2ND AT NEW ENGLAND DIV. III CHAMPIONSHIP** MIT was seeded 6th behind
Williams, Bates, Bowdoin, Brandeis, and Amherst going into the New England
Division III Championships held this past weekend at Bowdoin College.
Performing true to tradition and form, the Engineers ran, jumped, and threw
their way to a 2nd place finish, two points behind Williams College. Leading
the way for Tech was Ravi Sastry '98. Ravi competed in the pentathlon on
Friday, earning a 2nd place behind Williams' Sasaki-Scanlon with a personal
best 3221 points. In the Long Jump they saw each other again, but this time
Ravi got the upper hand with a season best jump of 22-00 1/4. Sasaki-Scanlon
jumped 21-4, but pulled his hamstring on his next attempt. This effectively
took the top seed out of the Pole Vault, and the 3rd seed out of the High
Hurdles. This opened the door for MIT. The next final that MIT scored in was
the Shot Put, where Patrick Dannen '98, came through, placing 5th with a throw
of 44-8 3/4 on his final effort. This pulled Pat from 7th place, and came
within a centimeter of 4th. Mike Parkins '99, took the line in the 1500, the
first part of a difficult double, against a very quality field led by Amherst
junior Rob Mitchell, a 4:03 miler. Mike ran a personal best of 3:59.24 to earn
4th place. Mike felt terrible after the race, in part because he thought he
should have placed higher but also because of the fast early pace and jostling
that took place in the middle of the pack. Sastry was up next in the High
Hurdles. Ravi was seeded 1st and he did not disappoint, running a personal
best of 7.92 to win easily. Also scoring for MIT was freshman Junius Ho,
placing 6th with a personal best of 8.34. At this point, it was shaping up as
a 3 team race among Williams, MIT, and Bates. A lot of Bates success would
depend on the Pole Vault and the relays. Williams was counting on a big 3000
race and some relays. MIT was hoping for a lot of people to place a lot higher
than they were seeded. MIT did not have any entries in the 55, 200, 600, or
800 meters, choosing instead to take marginal potential scorers and form some
really strong relays. Todd Rosenfield '01, ran a strong 400 in 52.26 but could
not make the finals. Joel Ford '98, running well come Championship time is as
sure a thing as having cold weather in the winter. Joel unfortunately had to
compete against Mitchell from Amherst and a top 800 runner who decided to run
the typically less competitive 1000. Having less speed than these other two,
Joel took the race out at an even 30 second per 200 pace. Leading the middle
600 meters, Joel could not kick with the top two seeds and faded to 3rd in
2:33.88. Joel was disappointed but it was a marvelously run race and about all
he could expect to do. The Pole Vault was shaping up as quite a battle between
Sam Thibault '00 and a Bates vaulter. Thibault was ahead on misses as 6
vaulters cleared 13-06. However, at 14-00, only the Bates vaulter cleared,
giving him 1st place and Thibault 2nd, which was a big help to the Engineers.
Mike Parkins was up for his second race, the 3000, but did not seem to be the
confident runner who laid to waste the rest of New England Division 3 this
season. Mike immediately went to the back of the pack and stayed about 10
meters off the leader. The pace was not too fast (70 second pace), but fast
enough to allow for good times. Mike stayed on pace until the 2000 meter mark
when the leaders picked up the pace. Mike let them go initially but battled
back to fight and win the battle for 6th place in 8:47.46. Williams placed 1,
3, 4 in this race to pull back ahead of MIT. Most of the top runners chose not
to run the 5000, thus leaving the door open for Chris McGuire '00, who was
planning on running much better than his 15:33 seed. Chris ran with the pack
for the early part of the race as they went through 72 second quarters for the
first 2400 meters. The pace fell to 75s for the next mile and a quarter, and
Chris was content to sit and kick. Kick he did, running his last 600 meters in
1:39, narrowly escaping a furious final 200 by a Tufts runner to win in
15:09.07. Williams managed to get 5th place, putting them 8 points ahead of
MIT and Bates going into the relays. The Distance Medley Relay (DMR) was first
on the schedule. Tech's team was high in potential but untested in
championships. Sohail Husain '98, led things off by taking the lead in the
1200 leg. Sohail finished in second with a fine 3:14 split after having run
his first quarter in 61. Chuck Van Buren '98, dropped down from the 800 to run
his first competitive 400 race. Chuck ran great although he lost some ground
to some better 400 runners. He came in 4th with a 54.3 leg. Gus Blomquist '99,
took the baton for the 800 leg, running a well planned personal best of
2:02.5. Even though he ran a great race, Gus handed the baton to freshman Phil
Loiselle in 5th place. Phil went out hard (62) and moved up well. By the 1200
mark Phil had moved up to 3rd and looked like he may stay there. However, the
Brandeis runner came back to kick past Phil, putting MIT in 4th with a time of
10:38.18. Williams was 5th and Bates did not score. MIT had a very strong 3200
Relay, but needed to score in the 1600 Relay in order for the 3200 Relay to
have a chance of catching Williams. Ravi Sastry got things started with a
great 52.8 leadoff in his first 400 of the season. Ravi was nursing a very
sore ankle and went out very cautiously, but came on very strong at the
finish. Neal Karchem '99, took the baton in 6th and was able to move up even
with the 4th and 5th place runners, but MIT had to go all the way outside to
hand off for the second straight leg. By this point, Tech had run about 15
meters further than the leading teams. Ed Tolson '01 ran a solid 52.9 leg to
move MIT into 5th and in a position to finish no worse than 6th overall.
However, Todd Rosenfield '01, was passed almost immediately by the runner-up
in the open 400 and became frustrated at not being able to make up ground on
the pack ahead of him. This ultimately permitted Tufts University to capture
6th place out of the slower section by 4 tenths of a second. Bates did not
score but Williams earned 3rd place thus clinching the New England Division
III Championship. However, the 3200 Meter Relay still had to be run and there
is a good story to tell. MIT had not a fast 3200 Relay all season, primarily
because there was never a need in order to win a meet and there is usually
only 1 section in this event. Well, this time there were 12 teams entered, we
were seeded 9th, and our constitution only permits 1 section when there are 9
or fewer teams entered. This meant that MIT would run in the slower, first
section without a great deal of competition. As mentioned before, Tech had
entered a very strong relay and was confident they could defend their title in
the event. Ken Walker '01, learning to run in the front, ran a personal best
2:01 to put MIT in the lead. John Biesiadecki '01, out most of the season with
an injured quad, ran brilliantly considering he opened with a 27 first 200\\.
John opened the lead to 50 meters with a 2:02 split. Taking the baton next was
Joel Ford. Joel thrives in situations like this. Opening up with 55 first
quarter, Joel nearly lapped some teams as he finished in 1:58. Leif Seed '99,
injured for the entire season up until last week went out hard knowing that
every inch might matter when the faster section ran. Leif began lapping the
field as he also went out in 55. Leif finished his race very strong in 1:57,
giving MIT a total time of 7:59.78. Tech anxiously waited for the fast section
to run to find out if they would win, not necessarily to see if they lost to
Williams by 2 or 4 points. Amherst College did not disappoint as they made it
close enough that no one trusted their stop watches or their ability to time
quite that much. The final announcement had MIT winning by .23 seconds, thus
finishing 2 points behind Williams College. ** MIT Continues To Do Well In
Championships** **Ford and Relay Team Qualify for IC4As** On Friday night,
Ravi Sastry '98 equalled his 22'0.25" PR in the Long Jump and placed 8th. In
the High Hurdles Ravi scored the only points for MIT by placing fourth in
running just .01 off of his recent PR. He also won his trial heat easily in
the 55 Meter Hurdles in a PR :07.90, and ran 7.93 in the Semi- Finals. Joel
Ford ran a strong 1000 Meter trial, clocking 2:31.91 and qualifying for
Saturday's final. Joel opened up much faster in the finals. He came through
the 400 in 57 seconds and the 800 in 1:58. However, Joel could not hold onto
the pace as once again he faded in the last 100 meters. Nevertheless he ran
2:30.81 and qualified for next weekend's IC4A Championship at Cornell.
Misfortune struck Sohail Husain '98, however, as he got tripped up and knocked
to the track early in the race, and was never able to regain contact with the
field, running 2:47.22 for his effort. Neal Karchem '99 ran a lifetime indoor
best in the 400 Meters, spinning the 2 laps in :52.08. Todd Rosenfield '01
fared not quite so well, with a :52.64 In the 5000 Meters, Sophomore Chris
McGuire raced to an indoor PR 15:02.47, moving him up to 6th on the All Time
MIT Indoor List, and finished 8th. Junior Mike Parkins started like a house
afire but ended up paying a price for his early aggression, and finished in
15:12.19. The Distance Medley Relay squad did establish the Freshman Indoor
Record for that event, but they were hampered by being in the seeded heat.
Division 3 freshmen taking on Division 1 seniors seems like a bit of a
mismatch on paper, and it was. Still, the gallant foursome of Ken Walker
(3:14.0), ToddRosenfield (:52.4), John Biesiadecki (2:03.0), and Phil Loiselle
(4:32) combined for a respectable 10:41.77 In the Weight Throw, junior Jason
Dailey fell victim to a disobedient right leg, and couldn't find the power
position necessary for superior throwing. His 45'10" toss was well off his
season best of 50'8". The 4x800 Meter Relay turned in an excellent performance
to close out the day. Running in the unseeded heat, Ken Walker led off with a
personal best 2:00.0, that put us right in the thick of things. John
Biesiadecki unleashed a beautiful pass-on-the-inside, then-on-the-outside
spurt in his final 100 meters and gave us the lead with an indoor best 1:57.6.
Joel Ford then rocketed away with a typical Joel Ford quarter (:53.8) and
blasted open a large lead with his 1:57.0 split. Leif Seed '99 then stormed
his four laps in an impressive 1:54.4 for a team time of 7:49.10. That mark
easily surpasses the IC4A qualifying time, and earns the quartet the right to
compete at Cornell University next weekend against the best teams in the east.
**Tech Prepares For New England Division III Championships With Numerous
Personal Best in Quad Cup Invitational ** The Quad Cup Invitational was set up
as a Men's and Women's non-scoring meet involving only quad cup teams. The
idea was to have a meet the week prior to the New England Division III
Championships that allowed for good competition without the pressure of trying
to double and triple people in order to win a meet. At the time that the
rosters were due it appeared that we may have to cancel the meet due to
insufficient teams being entered, particularly women's teams. Finally, enough
men's teams entered, but we did have to cancel the women's meet because only 1
team entered. The meet provided great competition with teams from Williams,
Springfield, Middlebury, and Plattsburgh State from New York. All together 17
season or personal bests were established. The long sprint events were good
ones for MIT. In the 200 Meter Dash, Marc Bourget '01, ran a season best of
24.76 to end his season on a good note. In the 400, Ed Tolson '01, Ashley
Clayborne '99, and Adam Winkel '01, all ran season bests of 55.11, 55.37, and
55.78 respectively. The 800 alone had 4 Tech runners with season or personal
bests. Leif Seed '99, led the way with a season best of 2:00.68 in only his
second week of running this season. Ken Walker '01, continued to run faster
each week with a personal best of 2:01.73. John Biesiadecki '01, returned to
competition with a band as he lowered his season best with a time of 2:03.91.
Finally, Gus Blomquist '99, lowered his personal best a few hundredths to
2:04.53. In the 1000 Meter run, Phil Loiselle '01, ran a personal best of
2:36.59 in a winning effort. Ray Molnar '00, continued to lower his time each
week with yet another personal best of 2:40.71. Sohail Husain '98, led three
Tech runners to PRs with a 4:10.83 clocking. Also running personal bests were
Kaoru Aou '00, and Albert Hung '01, running 4:31.92, and 4:36.34 respectively.
In the 3000 Meters, Chris McGuire '00, showed that he is ready for the
Championships with an easy victory in 8:49.50. Liyan Guo '01, also ran a
personal best with a time of 9:14.97. There were only 3 bests in the field
events, but they were big ones. In the Pole Vault, Sam Thibault '00 set a
personal best with a vault of 13-09. Sam Towell '00, set a season best of 12-3
to probably make the NE Div. III field next week. Sam had major wrist surgery
and had to have pins in his wrist for many months after a year ending vaulting
injury last indoor season. The other personal best was nearly a 5 foot
improvement in the Weight Throw by Brian Wong '99, to 46-1 3/4. Due to the
meet nearly being canceled and the subsequent weakness in a few of the fields,
5 runners went over to Boston University to run in the Valentine's Day
Classic. In the 400, Todd Rosenfield '01, ran a personal best of 51.97. Neal
Karchem '99, joined Todd in running an indoor personal best of 52.75. In the
1000 Meter Run, Joel Ford '98, showed he is ready to challenge the Varsity
record in the event with a 2:30.22 season best. Mike Parkins '99, tried to run
a national qualifying time in the 5000 but got caught in a slow paced section.
Mike could not pick it up enough to make up the time but did run a season best
of 15:03. Todd, Neal, Joel, and Martin Suresh '99, put together a season best
1600 Meter Relay time of 3:29.68. This time will put Tech in the fast section
of the relay next week at the Division III Championships at Bowdoin. **For
Second Year in Succession, Williams Wins Meet in Last Event ** Last Year, the
first Quad Meet of the season, Williams College hosted MIT, Middlebury, and
Norwich. The meet came down to the Pole Vault which had been delayed. There
were two vaulters remaining, one for MIT and one for Williams. Whoever won the
event would also win the meet. Williams won that meet by 1 point. This year,
MIT is definitely in a rebuilding year. However, Williams may still be the
best team in the region but they also lost a lot to graduation and transfer.
MIT again brought the meet down to the last event with a chance to win.
Williams again proved to have the competitive and talent edge as they defeated
Tech 230 to 222. UMass/Dartmouth was a distant third with 67 points, followed
by WPI with 65. Quad Cup meets permit a school to enter up to 4 entries per
event. Similarly to the way dual meets were scored, 50% of the competitors or
8 places are scored with the scoring being 9-7-6-5-4-3-2-1. Therefore each
event has a total of 37 points with any one team having the possibility of
scoring 27 points if they sweep the first four places. MIT began the meet by
getting 18 points in the Weight Throw to Williams nine. Mike Butville '98 led
the way with a 49-0 1/2 effort for second place. Jason Dailey '99 had a
personal best of 47-11 for 4th, George Torres '99 followed with a personal
best 46-1 1/2 throw for 5th, and Brian Wong '99 also threw a personal best of
41-11 for 7th place. The Long Jump was going on at the same time but not with
the same results. Ravi Sastry '98 won with a personal best jump of 21-11 1/2
but the only other place earned by MIT was an 8th place by Tyson Lawrence '01
with a leap of 18-10 1/2. Williams scored 16 points to keep the meet within 3
points. The 55 Meter High Hurdles were the next finals to finish and Sastry
continued his day of personal bests with an effort of 7.94 to win easily. Also
scoring for Tech was Jeff Daniels '01 with a huge PR of 8.74. Williams scored
17 points to pull ahead by 1 point 42-41. The 1500, typically MIT's best
event, was hindered by a last minute injury by Leif Seed '99. This prompted
Tech to switch Joel Ford from the 600. Mike Parkins '99 continued his
dominance this young season by winning in a personal best of 4:04.09. Ford
followed in fifth, with freshman Phil Loiselle taking 6th in a personal best
of 4:13.13, and Sohail Husain '98 garnering 7th in 4:15.48. Nevertheless,
Williams outscored MIT by 1 point and lengthened their lead to 2. The 400 was
won by MIT freshman Todd Rosenfield in 53.08. Neal Karchem followed in third,
running 53.93. Kamal Mokeddem placed 6th overall, running a personal best of
55.03 out of the slow section. The Engineers outscored Williams 18-7 in this
event and retook the lead 77-68. The High Jump was not a good event for either
team as Williams cut the lead in half by outscoring Tech 11-7. Williams star
sophomore thrower, Dave Stuhlsatz, won the Shot Put with a toss of 52-11 1/2,
but MIT outscored the Ephmen 16-15. Patrick Dannen '98 led the way with a
personal best of 43-7 for 2nd place. Also with a personal best was Torres with
a throw of 42-0 for 5th. Butville followed in 6th and freshman Brian Rogers
placed 7th. The 600 was supposed to be a big event for Tech but an injury to
Sean Montgomery '01 and switching Ford to the 1500 left the Engineers with
untested ability in the event. Ed Tolson '01 was able to secure 4th with a
1:30.82. Other MIT runners who placed were Gus Blomquist in 5th, Ashley
Clayborne '99 in 6th, and Tony Pelosi in 8th. Despite the slow times, MIT only
lost 2 points to Williams and still led overall by 4. MIT's only sprinter is
hurdler/jumper Ravi Sastry. Ravi ran 6.88 to get 5th place for Tech's only
points. Williams scored 16 to take an 8 point overall lead. Williams College
Decathlon All-American, Derek Sasaki-Scanlon won the Pole Vault, but MIT took
2nd - 5th places to outscore Williams 22-15, and pull within 1 point. Matt
Potts '00 led the way with a personal best of 13-0. Following were Sam
Thibault '00 in 3rd, Sam Sidiqi '99 in 4th, and Steve Lefkowitz '00 in 5th.
Ford came back in the 800 and won with a time of 2:01.77. Freshman Ken Walker
ran a great race and garnered 2nd place with a 2:02.23 personal best. Chuck
Van Buren '98 secured 4th place, and Jeff Billing '01 ran to 7th place. This
turned out to be the Engineers best event as they scored 23 points to Williams
13, thus giving MIT a 9 point lead. Parkins followed Ford's effort with a win
of his own in the 1000, running a personal best of 2:37.22. Husain doubled
back from the 1500 and earned 4th place, and Ray Molnar '00 faded in the last
lap but held on to 6th. MIT lost 2 points to Williams but maintained a 7 point
lead. MIT's weakness in the sprints showed up again in the 200. Although all
of Tech's runners ran season bests, they were only able to score 6th, 7th, and
8th places. Sastry led the way with 24.18. He was followed by Karchem and
Rosenfield. Williams now had a 3 point lead with only 4 events to go. MIT
needed some points and Parkins was asked if he could run sub 16:00 after his
already busy day, without getting hurt. He said he could and indeed he did,
running 15:44.08 for 4th. Chris McGuire '00 returned from the injured list to
run his first race of the season and get 2nd place with a 15:33.09. Running
personal bests were freshmen Mark Strauss, 15:51.63 for 5th, and Ed Keehr
16:19.21 for 7th. The strategy worked and MIT now had a 5 point lead. The
Triple Jump did not work out the MIT's advantage as Williams outscored Tech
14-7. Leading the way for MIT was freshman Kalpak Kothari with a personal best
of 41-2 1/2 for 5th place. Sastry was 7th with 38-3 1/2, and Lawrence was 8th.
Williams now led by 2 with only the relays to go. Because only 3 of the 4
teams declared for the two relays, the scoring was to be 9-6-0. This of course
meant that MIT would have to either beat Williams in both relays or win one
and have Williams finish 3rd (which was very unlikely). The stage was set and
the Johnson Athletic Center was rocking. One could hardly hear anything as the
Williams and MIT athletes were spread around the track. Tech decided to load
the 1600 Relay with their remaining resources. Not having Seed and Montgomery
certainly limited the strategy. Tech remained right on Williams back until 150
meters to go when Sasaki-Scanlon pulled away from Karchem. The team of
Rosenfield, Martin Suresh '99, Ford, and Karchem ran 3:34.02. With only the
3200 Relay, MIT had to win and hope that Williams finish 3rd. It was not to
be. Tech fell behind at the beginning and never recovered. The quartet of
Husain, Walker, Van Buren, and Loiselle finished in 2nd with a 8:24.77. Next
week, the 2-1 Engineers travel to Bates to face Bowdoin, Colby, and Southern
Maine.


