


  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Record Alumni Turnout Can't Stop Varsity

Okonkwo, Gong and Reduker Set Records

January 7, 2017

The snowstorm, which began about the same time as the start of the annual
Varsity vs. Alumni Indoor Track & Field meet, did not prevent 55 alums from
showing up to compete and/or support their "Has-Been" teammates.
Nevertheless, the varsity team prevailed, the men earning a 97 to 28 victory
and the women taking the win with 88 points to 38 for the alumnae.

While the men graduated a quartet of outstanding long sprinters and two
impressive horizontal jumpers that could have given the alums the weapons
necessary to be a threat, the current varsity team was very pleased that only
two of those six returned to compete.  To make up for those losses, the
varsity had beefed up their high jump squad and that was evident in the first
event.  Alec Reduker '20 entered the competition at 6-2, cleared it on his
first attempt, then did the same with 6-4 to win the competition.  He then put
the bar at 6-10 1/4, clearing it on his second attempt to set a new MIT
freshman record.  Freshman teammates Chris Washington and Steven Speck took
second and third, both clearing 6-2.

The tone was set, but the alumni had their moments.  Ben Schreck '15 took
first place honors in the Pole Vault, clearing 15-4 1/4 to defeat Raja Rajcic
'20, who cleared 13-5 1/4.  Marshall Wentworth '16 edged "Has-Been" teammate,
Jordan Mizerak '14 for third place at 12-11 1/2.  Other alums in the vault
were Justin Schmidt '10 and Nate Sharpe '09.

Sam Parker '15 matched Schreck's performance by taking the 800 meter victory.
Letting Nathan Munet '19 set the pace, Parker took the lead in the final lap
to sprint to a 1:57.25 win.  Munet was close at 1:57.62 and Tyndale Hannan '20
took third in 1:57.74.  Other alums in the event were Rick Paez '15 and Logan
Trimble '13.

The only other alumni victory was earned by Kyle Hannon '13.  Hannon, the Mile
Run record holder at 4:06.42, brought his talents down to the sprints. He fell
slightly short in the 60, missing third place by .08 seconds at 7.68 to
teammate Michael Kaba '16, but took the victory in the 200 at 24.58. Also
racing, but tweaking his hamstring was David Blau '06.

An impressive effort in an alumni double was turned in by Justin Bullock '14.
Bullock, in pretty good condition despite the rigors of medical school, took
out the Mile in 30 seconds for the first 200, hoping to drop the varsity
runners.  After coming through the 400 in 61, with the varsity runners sitting
back at 63, the wheels started coming off the bus as the pace slowed and the
varsity runners took control.  Dennis Maloney '19 ultimately prevailed at
4:20.72 with Matt Deyo 'G placing second at 4:24.00.  David Walter '18 secured
third in 4:26.92.  Bullock finished at 4:44.36.  In the 5K, Bullock had a
wiser strategy.  This time he let the varsity runners set the pace.  Brian
Gilligan '17 took first honors, coming through the 1600 in 4:55.  Shortly
thereafter Josh Rosenkranz '19 took control, holding pace for a 9:49 3200
split and continuing on to a 14:40 4800 and 15:15.26 for the victory.  Alex
Knoedler '18 took second in 15:38.60 while Ben Freed '18 finished in third in
15:54.02.  Bullock's strategy was much more successful than what he employed
in the Mile, finishing in fifth in 16:01.38.  Other alums in the events were
Benji Xie '15, Matt Jordan '15, Roy Wedge '14, Gihan Amarasiriwardena '11 and
Joe Roy-Mayhew '08.

On the varsity side of things, the only double winner was Arinze Okeke '17.
Okeke had a problem with fouls in both the Long Jump and Triple Jump, fouling
three times in each event.  Nevertheless, despite passing on three attempts
between the two events, he won the Long Jump at 21-10 and then came back to
take first place in the Triple with an excellent 48-2 3/4.  Finishing a close
second in both events was Billy Ruschel '18 at 21-6 and 47-5 3/4.  Thad
Wozniak '06 continued to defy father time as he placed third in the Long Jump
at 20-6 1/2.  Angle Echevarria '16 also competed in both events for the alums.

Other event winners were Tre Albritten '18 in the 60 (7.15), Henry Tareque '17
in the 400 (52.94), Chris Sweeney '18 in the 60HH (8.48), Cody Bratten '18 in
the Shot Put (42-8) and Albert Menio '20 in the Weight Throw (37-0 1/4).  The
varsity quartet of Albritten, Aidan Gilson '19, Tareque and Hannan took the
4x200 Relay in 1:35.04.

Other alums competing were Matt Barron '13 in the 400 and Matt Falk '12 in the
High Jump and Shot Put (placed second).  Those in support were Nate Ball '05,
Patrick Barragan '08, Javit Drake '94, Kimathi Hardy '97, Daniel Harper '12,
Tom Hoover '05, Eric Khatchadourian '06, Nick Leonard '11, Allen Leung '15,
Carrington Motley '16, and Omari Stephens '08.

The key event in the women's competition was the 1500.  The NCAA went from the
1500 to the Mile for indoor track back in about 2006.  We have not contested
the 1500 indoors since then.  It was time to make an attempt at taking Martha
Buckley's '04 4:49.50 record down.  Initially there was going to be an effort
at totally changing the top 10 list, but minor injuries got in the way.
Maryann Gong's first indoor 1500 was a beautiful thing to watch as she eased
out to a pair of 77's as she led her varsity teammates in their quest.
Feeling pretty good despite the tight turns of the MIT track, she dropped the
pace to 73 and then a 54 for the final 300 to win in a new varsity record of
4:41.13.  Blowing away Buckley's freshman record of 5:00.65 was Marissa
Phillips '20 taking second in 4:49.33.  Katie Bacher '20 placed third in
4:51.10.  Altogether five of the top-10 all-time performances were replaced.
Competing for the alums were Adrienne Bolger '09 and Maggie Lloyd '12.

Nneoma Okonkwo '18 not only set a varsity record, but also set the facility
record when she won the Long Jump in 18-1.  Not satisfied with one victory the
junior won the 60 meter dash in 8.08.

The alumnae did quite well in the field events.  Joanna Chen '15 beat out Jen
Tylock '17 and Makenzie Patarino '19 by clearing 10-11 3/4. Also competing for
the alums were Emily Cole '09, Caroline Figgatt '11 and Abby Klein '14.

Michelle Johnson '15 showed she still has it in the Triple Jump, as she took
the event with a mark of 36-9 3/4.  Jasmine Jin '20 took second in 36-2 1/4.
Julia Sharpe '12 took third, and also took thirds in the Weight Throw and High
Jump to show her versatility.

Preethi Vaidyanathan '15 won the High Jump by clearing 5-3 3/4 and did so
without any misses along the way.  Natalie Alper '17 claimed second at 5-1
3/4.

The lone alumni winner in the running events was Alina Gatowski '11 as she
scorched the varsity runners in the 5K.  Gatowski settled in to 88 second
pace, barely slowing towards the end to win in a fine time of 18:16.87.
Elaine McVay '15 paced herself much better than the varsity runners as she
went from last to second in 18:48.24.  Charlotte Folinus '20 closed well to
take third in 18:52.25.

The most competitive race was the 800.  Bailey Tregoning '19 scratched from
the 1500 as her knee was feeling a little off, but loosened up by the time the
800 came around.  Louise van den Heuvel '14, who won this battle last year,
took the pace out fast, particularly for the 200 meter flat track.  Her first
200 was a solid 32 and the 400 was a low 65.  Tregoning was right on her
heels.  During the majority of the third lap Tregoning tried to go past but
van den Heuvel was not letting her by.  Finally Tregoning took the lead and
pushed it home in 2:14.72 to van den Heuvel's 2:16.64.  McPhillips doubled
back with a third place 2:21.13.  Alisha Schor '07 also competed in the event.

Other alumnae place winners were Isabella Stuopis '16 claiming second in the
Shot Put (37-11 3/4), Christine Labaza '14 placing third in the Shot Put (34-4
3/4), Stephanie Birkhimer '15 earning third in the 60HH (10.49), Caroline
Figgatt '11, taking third in the 200, and Alexandra Taylor '14 placing second
in the 400.

Varsity winners were Ariela Slutsky '18 in the Weight Throw, setting a PR of
51-6 and taking the Shot Put with a throw of 38-11 1/2, Gabriella Zak '20 in
the 200 (27.24), Jane Reed '20 in the 400 (63.09), Hannah Chen '18 in the 60HH
(9.72) and the quartet of Chen, Reed, Zak and Michelle Menkiti '20 taking the
4x200 Relay in 1:50.12

Alumnae giving support were Brooke Johnson '13, Veronica Szklarzewski '15,
Catherine Tweedie '04, Cimmy Virdi '16, Ashley Wheeler '15 and Nicole Zeinstra
'16.

Next week MIT begins their intercollegiate schedule with a home tri-meet
against Bates and Colby.  They will need for some of those not competing this
weekend to be ready if they are to succeed against their Maine rivals.



RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**Quality Overcomes Opponents Depth in Victory Over Bates and Colby**

January 14, 2017

A number of tweaks and illnesses, combined with more than the normal number of
athletes out with injuries, put MIT in a situation where it looked doubtful
for them to win their annual tri-meet with Bates and Colby colleges in the
first team intercollegiate meet of the season, hosted at the Johnson Indoor
Track by MIT.  When the dust had settled MIT escaped with two victories due to
excellent top end performances despite their lack of depth on this particular
day.  The men won with 178 points to 125 for Bates and 59 for Colby.  The
women took first in a hard fought battle with 160.5 points to 135 for Bates
and 74.5 for Colby.

MIT's men's team won the meet by outscoring their opponents in the jumps with
60 points to 17 for Bates and 11 for Colby.  In the High Jump, Alec Reduker
'20 took first place with a clear of 6-7 3/4, and he had some decent attempts
at 7-0 1/4.  Scott Cameron '19 led a 1-2-3 finish in the Pole Vault as he won
the event at 14-5 1/4 from a short approach.  Bobby Upton '20 also cleared
14-5 1/4 for second place and Raja Rajcic '20 took third at 13-11 1/4.  Arinze
Okeke '17 won both the Long Jump and Triple Jump with performances of 22-5 3/4
and a personal best of 48-11, which is surely good enough to get him to the
NCAA Division III Championship in March.  For the third time this season Billy
Ruschel '18 jumped 47-5 3/4, this time earning second place in the Triple
Jump.

The men also came out ahead in the running events, but by a much closer
margin. Tre Albritten '18 took his two primary events, winning the 60 in a
personal best of 7.07 and taking first in his first 200 of the year in 22.40.

Tyndale Hannan '20 led a 1-2-4 finish in the 600 with an excellent 1:23.84
performance.  Nathan Munet '19 took second in 1:24.08 and Henry Tareque '17
placed fourth in 1:25.33.

MIT also did well in the longer distances, winning the Mile and the 3K. Aidan
Gilson '19 won the Mile in a strategic race, finishing in 2:07 for an overall
time of 4:23.68.  Dennis Maloney '19 took charge of the 3000 Meter race after
he and teammate, Matt Deyo 'G came through the 1600 in 4:37.  He then ran 67
quarters and finished with a last 200 in 32 to run 8:32.17.  Deyo ran 8:40.39,
running 31 for the final 200 to place third.

The other victory for MIT was in the DMR.  Billy Woltz '20 led off with a 3:20
1200 after having run the 800 earlier in the meet.  Daniel Sun '20, who placed
third in the 60HH earlier, ran a 55.7 400 leg.  Munet doubled back with a
2:00.5 800 and Josh Rosenkranz '19 came back from a 4:26.27 third place in the
Mile Run to run a 4:29 anchor for the victory.

Of particular note, Brandon Corts '17 showed tremendous heart in running an
indoor PR of 52.21 to place second in the 400, beating many higher seeded
teammates.  Corts came back in the 4x400 made up primarily of middle-distance
runners (Tareque, Hannan and Gilson) to anchor the team to second place in a
very aggressive 51.9 performance.

In the women's competition, the team lead went back and forth the entire meet
between Bates and MIT.  Despite the win by Maryann Gong '17 in the Mile Run in
5:03.84, leading from start to finish and closing in 2:25, Colby was in the
lead with 13 points with MIT at 11 and Bates with 10 points.  The first event
was the 4x200 Relay, in which MIT did not participate and Colby won.

The field events helped Tech a lot.  After the High Jump, in which Colby took
first and third, MIT was down by eight, but still ahead of Bates as Natalie
Alper '17 cleared 5-3 3/4 to take second place on misses.  About the same
time, Ariela Slutsky '18 won the Shot Put with a throw of 37-3 1/2 to help the
Engineers to close within three points of Colby and move ahead of Bates by
seven points. Despite the loss of star jumper/sprinter, Nneoma Okonkwo '18 due
to a slight injury, Haley Strouf '18 took up the slack, winning the Long Jump
with an indoor PR of 17-5 1/4 to help her team take the lead with 46.5 points
to 39.5 for Colby and 36 for Bates.

Back on the track, the 60HH did not go the way it should have, which gave
Colby the lead again.  Allison Hill of Bates won in an excellent 8.97 and MIT
got beat badly by two Colby College runners, scoring only five points with
fourth and fifth places by Gabriella Zak '20 (9.54) and Hannah Chen '18
(9.86).  In the 400, Tech only had one runner, Jane Reed '20.  Reed competed
very well, running a PR 62.65, just missing out on first place.  However,
Bates scored the remaining five places to earn 17 points, surging ahead with
53 points to 51 for MIT and 39.5 for Colby.  After the 600, where Bailey
Tregoning '19 ran an inspiring 1:37.45 for the victory, and Skylar Brooks '20
made a remarkable come from behind move to claim second, the Engineers were
back in front.

Despite the loss of Okonkwo, Chen (8.32), Michelle Menkiti '20 (8.34) and
Kathryn Mohr '20 (8.42) did the job in the 60 Meter Dash by sprinting to a
2-3-4 finish respectively even though the times were not the trio's best.

In the 800, Gong returned, and even though she did not run to her ability, she
led start to finish as she had in the Mile Run, winning the 800 in 2:21.64.
Bates still outscored MIT, taking the lead once again, leading 80 to MIT's
79.5.

After the Weight Throw and the 1000 it looked as though MIT had pulled ahead
for good.  In the Weight Throw Slutsky took second with a new PR of 52-1 and
Jackie Vahey '17 returned from her high ankle sprain injury to take third with
a 47-10 1/4 throw.  In the 1000, freshmen Marissa McPhillips and Katie Bacher
went 1-2, running an outstanding race in 3:00.78 and 3:01.01 respectively.
Tech was up 101.5 to 91. However, then came the Triple Jump. Tech's lone
entry, Jasmine Jin '20 performed well in getting second with a jump of 35-10,
but Bates claimed 1-3-4-5-6 to take the lead 107 to 106.5.

Fortunately, MIT saved their best for last.  The only events in which they had
depth were the 3K and the Pole Vault and those two were the final events other
than the 4x400 Relay and the Distance Medley Relay.  Leandra Zimmermann '19
(10:26.45) led Mary Eccles '18 (10:29.08) and Bailee Margolis '19 (10:30.23)
to a 1-2-3 finish and Charlotte Folinus '20 added a point for sixth to give
MIT the lead for good.  In the Pole Vault, there were nine entries and Tech
had seven of them.  Bates had the other two, but they were finished before the
MIT vaulters started.  Kari Stromhaug '19 won at 10-11 3/4.  Jenn Tylock '17
and Kathryn Mohr '20 tied for second, also clearing 10-11 3/4.  Makenzie
Patarino '19 took fourth at 10-6, Kathleen Brandes '19 was fifth at 10-6 and
Kaitlyn Sparks '20 was sixth at 10-0.  The sweep of the 22 points meant game
over.

MIT took second in both relays.  The quartet of Chen, McPhillips, Reed and
Tregoning ran 4:05.46 with Chen leading off in 60.1 and Tregoning bringing it
home in 59.3.  In the DMR Bacher, Alper, Brooks and Jenna Melanson '20 ran
12:48.42.

Next week MIT travels to Brunswick, Maine to face host Bowdoin College, Tufts
University and Division II Merrimack College.  Getting a few of their athletes
back will certainly help the cause for MIT.



RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**Gong, Okonkwo Set Leading Marks in NCAA Division III**

January 21, 2017

The MIT Women's Track and Field team easily won the Bowdoin Invitational II
against Bowdoin, Merrimack, Tufts and the University of Southern Maine, and in
the process established themselves once again as one of the top teams vying
for the NCAA Division III Indoor Championship.  Maryann Gong '17, still coming
back from an early season achilles tendon injury, ran an NCAA Division III
leading time in the 3K of 9:46.91, while Nneoma Okonkwo '18 took four jumps in
the Long Jump and two of them were over 19', the best an NCAA leading 19-4
1/4, good for a new MIT record.  Tech dominated with 239 points to 113 for
runner-up Southern Maine, 101 for Tufts, 76 for Bowdoin and 43 for Division II
Merrimack.

The men's team also won the meet, although it was a much bigger struggle and
instead of establishing a national leading mark, Arinze Okeke '17 likely
fractured his fibula when his takeoff foot slid on the foul board on his first
attempt in the Long Jump.  Okeke had the third best mark in the country for
the Triple Jump and was the leader in both jumps in New England Division III.
Despite the loss, the team rallied to win with 181 points to 135 for host
Bowdoin, 120 for Tufts who held out their top distance runners, 74 for
Southern Maine and 42 for Merrimack.

The women still lack any significant depth outside of the Pole Vault and
distance events, but made the most of their entries, winning 11 of the 17
events they entered (not entering the 4x200 and 4x400 Relay events).  Winning
two victories a piece were Ariela Slutsky '18 and Okonkwo.  Slutsky won the
Weight Throw with a new PR of 54-7 1/4, which is 13th on the NCAA list and
number two on the New England list.  She then came back and took first place
honors in the Shot Put, throwing 39-1 1/4.  In addition to Okonkwo's amazing
long jump, she also won the 60 Meter Dash in a season best 7.91.

Some really outstanding performances were established by many team members.
Marissa McPhillips '20 showed that her competitive spirit far outweighed her
fatigue.  She first led the Mile Run from the start to the final quarter where
she got out-kicked, but took second place in 5:09.35. McPhillips came back in
the 800, again leading from the start, but this time pulled away at the finish
to win in 2:19.93.  Finally she led off the 4x800 team that nearly lapped the
field in an excellent time of 9:27.02.  Her lead-off leg was an outstanding
2:19.9.

Fellow middle-distance freshman Katie Bacher did not win an event, but shared
the triple, substituting the 1000 for the 800.  In the Mile, Bacher faded in
the last 400 to sixth place in 5:16.34, held onto third in the 1000 in 3:04.92
and contributed to the 4x800 with a 2:23.9 leg.

Bailey Tregoning '19, ran her first 1000 of the year, winning easily in
2:58.67.  She also came back to anchor the 4x800, but missed an opportunity to
put the time under 9:20 as she ran 2:20.8.

Hannah Chen '18 competed in her first 400 this year, winning going away in
59.27.  She thought she also won the 200, as she came from behind to win the
fast section in 26.89.  However, she lost to the winner of the previous
section by .29.

In the vertical jumps, Natalie Alper '17 did not have her best performance,
but nevertheless won the High Jump at 4-11 3/4. While the pole vaulters did
not get the event victory they did dominate the 21 performer field by taking
six places from second to a two-way tie for sixth, claiming 21 points in the
10-8-6-4-2-1 scoring format.  Kari Stromhaug '19 led the way with a clear of
11-5 3/4.

Also doing exceptionally well in a non-winning effort, Haley Strouf '18 leapt
a personal best 17-8 3/4 in the Long Jump to take second behind Okonkwo.  Her
effort moved her to a tie for second on the MIT all-time indoor list.

Gong led the 3K from start to finish, taking it out in 5:13 when she had
planned for 5:12.  After a couple quarters in 79, she dropped down to 77 and
finished with a 38 200 to show she had more in the tank.  About an hour later
she added a 2:22 800 leg on the 4x800 win.  Bailey Margolis '19 and Jenna
Melanson '20 added a second and third in 10:22.58 and 10:29.74 respectively.

Mary Eccles '18 led the comeback effort by Megan McCandless '20 to victory in
the 5K.  Eccles and McCandless planned to work together throughout the race,
but McCandless showed she is still "out of shape" as she makes her comeback
from plantar fasciitis.  With an initial 1600 of 5:33, McCandless fell off the
crisp pace.  After another 1600 of 5:39 Eccles began to slow as she had no
help other than lapping other participants.  A final 1600 of 5:51 threw her
off her goal, but her 17:49.17 was an excellent effort and a great win.
McCandless held onto second place in 18:15.12.

Of particular note, Gabriella Zak '20 showed her competitive spirit and the
attitude it takes to win championships when she disregarded the effects of the
flu she suffered this week to place fourth in the 60HH in 9.62 and sixth in
the 200 (27.28).  She also attempted the Long Jump but did not have a fair
jump.

Overall, the men's team, which was expected to be a dominant force this year
despite losing a lot of points from last year's championship team due to
graduation, has had a problem with poor performances in the sprints, and
injuries that have affected the entire team. In this particular meet, the
combination of the two led to a struggle to find a victory.

The Engineers were only able to manage five individual victories out of the 18
events.  Both Bowdoin's and Tuft's teams seemed to have more energy and a more
supportive attitude and it showed in many performances.  Still, many
individuals competed well for Tech, but it did not transfer to the entire
team.  MIT was in a battle with both Bowdoin and Tufts throughout the meet
until the final four events.

Of those final four events, three went really well for MIT.  The first was the
Pole Vault.  The trio of Bobby Upton '20, Scott Cameron '19 and Raja Rajcic
'20 did not get the individual win, but they did secure second, third and
fourth for 18 big points.  Upton cleared a PR of 14-11 to lead the way.
Cameron added a third place 14-5 1/4 and Rajcic cleared 13-5 1/4 for fourth
place.

The second of those events was the 5K.  For whatever reason, Tech had six of
the eight entries.  This was a perfect setup for a fast pace since the
competition was minimal and even if they tried and failed the Engineers were
pretty much guaranteed the top four places and should have been a top six
sweep.  Instead, only Josh Derrick '20, as he continues his comeback from a
stress fracture during the Cross Country season, took the initiative.
Derrick, hoping for his teammates to help out, was stranded after the first
1600, which was a respectable 4:48.  Derrick ran a 4:50 second 1600 and no
teammates were within 10 seconds.  His lack of help and his own lack of focus
showed up in the final 1800 meters as he slowed to a 4:59, but was able to
close in a 34 final 200 for a 15:11.51.  Nicholas Waltman '18 (15:31.16), Alex
Knoedler '18 (15:31.88), Daniel Weiss '19 (15:43.38) and Brian Gilligan '17
(16:12.32) took places 2, 3, 4, and 6 to earn 29 points and seal the team
victory.

In the final event, MIT needed to run a strong 4x800 Relay as it would be the
only opportunity to qualify for the fast section in the New England Division
III Championship.  Nathan Munet '19, who had place third in the 800 in
1:56.73, led off with a 1:57.5 leg, leading from gun to handoff.  Chris Mutty
'19, who had raced the 600 earlier, ran a solid 2:01.7 second leg.  Billy
Woltz '20, not having the best day, running a 2:42.06 1000 earlier in the
meet, fell off in his final lap, splitting 2:04.7.  Tyndale Hannan '20,
earlier placed second in the 800 with a 1:56.69 performance, anchored the team
to victory with a 1:57.2 leg for a cumulative time of 8:01.32.

One of the key victories along the way was established by undefeated Alec
Reduker '20, clearing 6-8 in the High Jump.  Matt Deyo 'G won the Mile with a
well run 4:20.08 and then came back to place second in the 1000 in 2:35.96.
Although he may have gotten away with a lane line violation, Tre Albritten,
the sole sprinter getting the job done, claimed first place honors in the 200
with his 22.33 performance.

Three additional field events stood out for MIT.  In the Triple Jump, Billy
Ruschel '18 took second place in 46-7 1/2 and Ryan Prinster '18 jumped a PR of
45-3 for fourth.  Jon Fakkema '19 had a strong day, first throwing a PR in the
Weight Throw with a 50-10 3/4 third place performance and then in the Shot
Put, joined teammate Cody Bratten '18 for a third and fourth place effort.
Bratten threw 45-1 for third and Fakkema 44-0 1/2 for fourth.

Both teams need to get more of their injured and sick athletes back.  However,
where the women have the right attitude, the men do not.  The next four weeks
will determine the legacy of this team and their ability to defend their New
England Division III titles.



RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Maloney Shatters 3K Record

February 26, 2017

The original plan was to rest the distance runners until Nationals and not
worry about trying to qualify them in more events.  Dennis Maloney '19 with
the third fastest time in NCAA Division III in the 5K, was not among those who
would go to Nationals in the 3K.  So, when Maloney looked totally recovered in
Tuesday's workout after his crushing 5K win in 14:33 last Saturday, the plan
was developed to take advantage of a stellar field at the Boston University
Last Chance Qualifier and enter him in the 3K.

Maloney, who had run 8:29.20 earlier in the year, needed an 8:15 or so to
qualify because of the nearly six second penalty that he would incur from the
banked track.  The plan was to go for 4:22 mile pace at the slowest.  While
the Mile and 5K fields were Olympic caliber, the 3K was just extremely
qualified.  Fortunately, the pace turned out to be exactly what Maloney
wanted.

Every 400 was between 65-66 seconds, hitting the 1600 in 4:22 and continuing
with that pace.  With 600 to go it appeared Maloney was ready to kick it in
and possibly win the race, but he held back until the final 200 where he
dropped a high 31 to move into third, finishing in 8:11.60, a new MIT record
and the third fastest time in Division III despite the correction to 8:17.31.



RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Deyo Sets MIT 5K record, Gong Runs NCAA Qualifying Time

December 3, 2016

MIT took four of the men's distance squad, and three of the women over to the
Boston University Season Opener with the purpose of achieving qualifying
performances in either the 3K or 5K for the NCAA Division III Championship.
If that failed they knew they would still get solid New England Division III
marks.  Continuing their training from the recently completed cross country
season and knowing they would need to qualify for both the 3K and 5K this
season so that their team would have more options come championship time, the
seven were hoping to get one of these out of the way while they were race
ready.

Marissa McPhillips '20, entered in the 3K, was first to compete for the
Engineers.  Seeded at 10:30, she somehow was moved to 10:04 and put into the
fast section.  She intelligently settled in the back of the field.  After a
first quarter that was much too fast even in the back of the pack at 72, she
settled in, running a 5:21 first mile.  At 2000 meters she started to show the
signs of the fast early pace, but still held on for an excellent 10:21.66.

Aidan Gilson '19 was the sole 3K entry for the men.  The goal was the get
significantly under 8:20 by running 66-67 400's.  This worked well through the
1600 as he looked strong at 4:28.  However, instead of starting his race at
that point, Gilson slowed to 76 pace for the next 1400 meters, finishing in
8:53.06

In the women's 5K, Maryann Gong '17 was in the fast section based on her
16:32.44 from last year, mid-season.  She was not ready for that pace, and
with the NCAA Division I Cross Country Champion leading the way, the pace was
set at 15:30, or sub 5:00 per mile pace.  Fortunately one other runner was
setting a more reasonable pace in the back at 81 pace for the first 2000
meters.  As the pace slowed to 82 through 3600 meters, it appeared Gong was
ready to go ahead and get back to 81 pace, but she lost the confidence to do
so after a partial attempt and fell back.  Nevertheless she ran a solid
17:03.51, which is a time that has always qualified for the NCAA Championship,
even with the nine second banked track penalty.

Mary Eccles '18 was in the second, and slower section.  Hoping for an
ambitious 83 second pace, she was out of luck as the leaders went out at a
pretty quick pace.  Eccles and one other runner settled into 84 pace in third
and fourth, coming through the 1600 at 5:29.  The pace slowed to 85 at the
half-way point, so Eccles went in front to pick up the pace.  The second 1600
was 5:37, but she was in a distant third, having to rely on lapping the slower
runners to keep focused.  Although she fell off to a 4:43 final 1600, she
finished in a very strong 17:32.41.

All three men, Matt Deyo 'G, Dennis Maloney '19 and Rory Beyer '17, were in
the second section of the 5K, which was too slow, but the fast section was too
fast.  They made the best of it by taking the lead.  Maloney took the first
turn through a 4:37 first mile.  Deyo took over, but let the pace slow to 71,
so Maloney took over again. However, he was unable to pick up the pace for
more than 600 meters.  After coming through the 3200 at 9:17, Deyo started to
pull away by running 70's.  He was able pick it up to 69 pace in the final
1000 meters.  Once he got rolling he realized he had much more left than he
thought, flying through the final 200 in 31 seconds to finish in a new MIT
record of 14:26.55.  Maloney also picked up the pace at the end to finish in a
new PR of 14:40.38.  Beyer, paying for the early ambitious pace, ran a 5:00
third 1600 to finish in a New England Division III qualifying 15:02.88.
Deyo's time may be fast enough to make the NCAA Division III Championship
field, but he will give it another go later in the season to make sure.

The Engineers have an intrasquad meet next Saturday before entering a two week
period of classes and exams followed by a one week holiday break.  They will
pick up again on January 2 in preparation for their annual Alumni/ae Meet on
January 7.  Their first intercollegiate meet as a team will be on January 14
versus Bates and Colby at home.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Vaulters Rule The Day at Tufts Final Qualifier

March 4, 2017

At the Final Qualifier hosted by Tufts University, a number of colleges from
New England and as far away as Georgia and Ohio competed for their final
opportunity to improve their chances of being among the top 15 men or top 17
women in all of Division III, the requirement for selection to the NCAA
Division III Indoor Track & Field Championship, held at North Central College
in Naperville, Illinois on March 10-11.

MIT held out their athletes who were solid locks on making the field, but
still competed a number of student-athletes.  Among those competing for the
Engineers were seven pole vaulters; five women and two men.  Of the seven,
three had personal bests and another a season best.  Leading the way was Kari
Stromhaug '19, a freshman eligibility wise as she was dealing with an injury
from high school all through her freshman year.  Stromhaug won the women's
vault with the ninth best vault in the country for Division III, 12-5 1/4.
Kaitlyn Sparks '19, broke her own freshman record by clearing 12-2 1/2, good
for fourth place.  Sparks currently sits at 17th on the NCAA list, which will
get her into the championship field if no one passes her later tonight as this
is the final day qualifying marks will be accepted.  Setting a season best was
Jen Tylock '17, clearing 11-8 1/2.  Scott Cameron '19 cleared 15-9 1/4 to
place second in setting his own personal best.  Cameron is 21st on the NCAA
list as it took 16-0 1/4 to make the field this year.

Ariela Slutsky '18 set a personal best in the Weight Throw, winning the event
with a mark of 56-3 3/4.  That mark puts the junior at 19th on the NCAA list,
just missing the championship field unless at least two decide not to enter
for some reason.

Haley Strouf '18 went from 10th the week before to 19th by the end of the day.
She tried to improve her mark of 18-6 1/2, but was unable to do so.  Like
Slutsky, she will have to hope at least two individuals do not enter.

Nneoma Okonkwo '18, already in the Long Jump field as the number two seed at
19-4 1/4, tried to improve her chances in the 60 Meter Dash.  She improved her
second best performance to a 7.82, but remained in 20th position overall.

MIT has two injured athletes who will not be going to the National
Championship, number three seed in the Triple Jump, Arinze Okeke '17 who
suffered a broken fibula back in January, and Tre Livingston '18, the number
four seed in the 200 who injured his hamstring two weeks before.  The men will
be represented by Dennis Maloney '19, the number three seed in both the 3K and
5K, Matt Deyo 'G the 12 seed in the 5K and 14 seed in the 3K, and Billy
Ruschel '18, the 10 seed in the Triple Jump.

In addition to Okonkwo in the Long Jump and Stromhaug and Sparks in the Pole
Vault, the women will be represented by Maryann Gong '17, the two seed in the
Mile, the five seed in the 3K and part of the 4th seeded DMR.  Bailey
Tregoning '19 is the three seed in the 800 and part of the DMR.

The final event lists will be posted on Monday and the Engineers hope to get a
couple of surprises in Strouf and Slutsky.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**Gong Leads MIT at NCAA Division III Championship**

March 10-11, 2017

MIT's Men's and Women's Track & Field teams entered the NCAA Division III
Indoor Track & Field Championship, hosted by North Central College in
Naperville, Illinois with high hopes but very aware it would be a stretch to
accomplish their season long rank of #2 for women and #4 for men.  Two very
high seeds were missing from the men's team; Arinze Okeke '17, the number
three seed in the Triple Jump, and Tre Albritten '18, the fourth seed in the
200.  In addition, both Matt Deyo 'G and Dennis Maloney '19 were racing both
the 3K and 5K, meaning achieving their seeds in both would take some serious
positive thinking and fortitude.

For the women, who were seeded to score a lot of points, their fate was
largely resting on the very capable shoulders of Maryann Gong '17, who would
be tripling in the Mile, 3K and anchoring the DMR.  Capable or not, this was a
large load, particularly with the Mile having trials and finals.

The weekend began with the Women's Long Jump.  Nneoma Okonkwo '18 was the
second seed and as such, certainly entertained the thought of winning.  Her
first jump was enough to get her into finals, but was very cautious as she
approached the board.  The second jump was an improvement, but still a
deceleration into the board compromised her result.  In the finals, she moved
up to third place on her fifth attempt, a jump of 18-9 3/4, but even with that
it was clear she was being cautious.  By the time her final attempt came
around she had been passed and was sitting in fifth place.  Her final jump was
a big one and possibly enough to win. After about a minute, and with the use
of the video system now at all takeoff boards, it was ruled a foul by the
narrowest of margins.  Her mark was very close to the 20' mark.  So fifth it
was.

Next up was the Pole Vault for women.  MIT was represented by Kaitlyn Sparks
'20, seeded 16th and Kari Stromhaug '19, seeded ninth.  With the exception of
the top vaulter, the competitors were very close in marks, so total misses
would likely be a large determining factor in place.  At the opening height of
11-3 3/4 Sparks cleared on her first attempt, but Stromhaug needed two
attempts to clear.  There were 16 vaulters competing and all who jumped at
that height made it.  At 11-9 3/4, both Sparks and Stromhaug made it on their
first attempt.  Three vaulters went out at that height, bringing the field to
13.  The next height was 12-3 1/2.  Both Sparks and Stromhaug cleared on the
second attempt, which was a new PR and freshman record for Sparks.  Six
competitors went out at this height, meaning there were seven remaining and
both MIT vaulters would be All American.  Neither was able to clear 12-7 1/2,
although both had very solid attempts.  Katherine Pitman '18 of Ithaca College
won in a new NCAA record of 13-8 1/2.  Of the eight All Americans only one is
a senior.

Gong was up for her first of two races on the first day, the trials of the
Mile Run.  Seeded second, the senior wanted to do just enough to get into the
finals.  However, her nervousness got the best of her, so instead of hanging
out in the back of the field, she ended up running the entire race in lane two
and three, running approximately 50 meters more than those on the rail.  Her
5:01.92, which would have really been about a 4:53 had she been in the inside
lane, was enough to get her in the final.

Bailey Tregoning '19, the third seed in the 800, had been nursing what was
likely a stress reaction in her foot for nearly two weeks, which was certainly
a distraction at best and a limiting factor at worst.  In the first of two
heats, the sophomore, instead of sitting at the back of the pack, settled into
second place behind a very fast paced lead.  Tregoing split 31, 64 and 1:38 as
she was about 10 meters behind first and 10 meters ahead of third.  However,
in the final 100 the wheels came off the bus and she slowed to finish in
2:14.81, missing finals by two places as she finished 10th overall and only
eight were moving on to the finals.

Now it was the men's turn to score some points.  Deyo and Maloney entered the
5K as 10th and second seeds respectively.  Both have plenty of speed and
enough endurance to handle any strategy that would develop.  They only needed
to be patient and let the race play out.  Patience is not one of Deyo's strong
suits and Maloney is just not experienced enough.  Deyo took the lead at the
gun, running a 32 first 200 before realizing the error of his ways and then
brought the pace down to a reasonable level, but he was still in the lead
through the first mile of 4:36.  Maloney was much more relaxed, but not
enough, as he reacted to every move while sitting amongst the top five
runners.  The second mile definitely slowed as Deyo gave up the lead but then
took it over again briefly.  The two mile split was 9:21 for the field, a
pedestrian enough pace for everyone to know that the kick would start early.
As he is known to do, Deyo slowed at this point, but with 900 meters to go was
still less than two seconds out of first and Maloney was just over two
additional seconds back. This is where the leaders took over, dropping the
pace to a 65 quarter.  Deyo ran a 68 as he woke up and Maloney a 70 as his
legs would not respond.  Deyo added a 67, but still lost ground to the leaders
and Maloney dropped to a 74.  Deyo ran a 32 final 200 to grab eighth, .11 out
of sixth in a time of 14:31.43.  Maloney finished 11th in 14:43.74.

The final event of the evening for MIT was the Women's DMR. After the 800
Trials, Tregoning's foot was hurting her a lot.  This combined with her poor
finish made her seriously doubt her ability to help the team.  Fortunately,
the team had brought along Katie Bacher '20 as an alternate just in case
something were to go wrong with any of the other legs as the freshman was
capable of doing very well at any of the legs.  After much deliberation a last
minute decision was made to substitute Bacher for Tregoning.  The questions
were many.  Could two freshman (Marissa McPhillips, Bacher) deliver on the big
stage?  How much did the hard mile take out of Gong?  Would the last minute
decision to race cause Bacher to "freak out"?  McPhillips ran the leadoff 1200
leg.  Despite a pretty quick 34 second first lap, McPhillips was in next to
last place in the 12 team field.  After splits of 70 and 2:25, McPhillips was
moving up despite looking a bit tired.  Her next 200 moved her up to fifth,
but in the final 200 she could only deliver a 40, pushing her back to seventh
at the handoff with a 3:43.7 split, putting her team in a strong position.
Hannah Chen '18, after a very physical exchange, settled in to move her team
up.  Her first lap of 27.4 was very good and set up a strong second lap where
she was able to move up to 6th, right with the fifth place team in 57.6.
Bacher took over and looked as though she had been doing this all her life.
Even though she was obviously holding back, she still split 31 and 64 for the
first two laps.  Her 600 split was 1:39 as she moved into fourth and her final
split, an amazing 2:14.8, moved her into third and right on the heels of
second.  When Gong received the baton she was able to move right into second,
but the leader was approximately 10 seconds in front and a very capable
runner.  Gong's plan was to run 73's and see what happens.  The thought was
that this was enough to keep the chase group at bay, who were about 10 meters
behind, and possibly catch the leader.  Her initial 400 of 72 did not make a
dent, but basically kept things the same. In the second 400 Gong made some
progress as it was clear her 2:27.0 had closed some ground on the leader while
opening up a little daylight on her opposition trying to catch her.  The 1200
split was 3:41 as Gong started to look tired and even less than the super
human she has been.  The chase pack could sense this and tried harder to
close.  About this time Gong saw she was only about 40 meters down from the
leader and really started to push.  Her final 400 of 72 left her two seconds
shy of first, but keep everyone else away as her team clocked an 11:50.15 for
second place.

Gong was up first on the second day, starting the Mile final.  She was
positioned on the inside and got pushed to the back at the gun.  This gave her
the chance to run from the back, which was a good thing given the pace.  Even
in last position the first quarter was 70.  From there the pace slowed and
bunched up.  Although cognizant to stay in lane one as much as possible, she
still moved in and out, looking for an opportunity to move up to the front.
That opportunity did not make itself available until there was 400 meters to
go.  She should have probably moved hard at that point, but everyone was
sprinting since the pace had slowed to 3:44 at the three quarter mark.  Even
though she ran a 71 final quarter, she was only able to move up to sixth with
a final time of 4:55.70.  This marked the third indoor Mile All America award
for Gong.

Billy Ruschel '18 was up next in the Triple Jump.  Seeded 10th, but only about
90% healthy after coming back from a hamstring strain three weeks ago, Ruschel
was nevertheless there to compete.  Fouling his first attempt and then cutting
his second jump short he was down to his final attempt.  He had a marvelous
attempt landing in the pit well past 47'.  The jump was marked at 14.54, but
was recorded at 13.54.  The only official video, which was the system used at
the foul board, is not capable of seeing the measuring tape, so even though
all jumps coaches in the box said it was 14.54 and the video and pictures MIT
had showed a jump of well over 47', it all had to be disregarded since it was
not "official video source". A failed protest followed by an appeal netted
Ruschel one more attempt.  While his mark that was mis-recorded would have put
him in fifth place, his re-jump, at 46-5 1/4 put him in ninth, good enough for
finals.  In the finals he was not able to improve his mark, but competed well,
particularly coming back from being out of the finals to getting one more
attempt and then delivering.

The final event for MIT was the Men's and Women's 3K.  The women were first
and that meant the final indoor collegiate race for Maryann Gong.  The 14 time
All American was hoping for one more.  Certainly feeling her three previous
races, she was determined to relax and let the race come to her. The early
pace was pretty slow and Gong was content to hang out in the back, coming
through the mile in 5:18.  The problem was that the two front runners started
breaking away after 1200 meters and Gong was unaware.  By the time she
realized what was going on they had a four second lead that expanded to six
seconds.  Gong started whittling away at that lead with 400 to go, closing it
down to two and a half seconds from the win, finishing in 9:44.93 for third
place.  Her final 800 was a 2:29 and final 200 a 34.

Deyo and Maloney were back for a second helping of distance racing with the
3K.  With so many doubling back from the 5K its was thought that Peter Hale of
Williams, the fastest seed and fresh, would take the lead and control the
race.  They needed to be ready for any sort of pace, but to be aware it could
pick up at anytime.  After a pedestrian 4:34 1600 and one more quarter at that
pace, it gradually picked up.  Hale dropped the pace to a 64 and then a 61
before finishing it off with a 28 200 to blow away the field.  Deyo was there
until 600 to go, but then fell off hard with a 69 400 finishing in 13th with
an 8:32.12.  Maloney finished in 15th in 8:36.38.

The women tied for fifth with 26 points while the men finished in 69th with
only one point.  The meet had its ups and downs, with a bit of bad luck and
even an official's error that cost Ruschel an All American honor.  All MIT
athletes competed with integrity and to the best of their ability.  Now they
will move their focus to the outdoor season as the championships begins in
seven weeks.

A number of Alums dropped by and their support was greatly appreciated.  Alex
Menchaca '85, Sean Schubert '88, Kyle Hannon '13, Veronica Szklarzewski '15
and Carrington Motley '16 all added a supportive voice for the MIT athletes.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**Despite Excellent Effort, Men Finish Third in New England Division III
Championship**

February 17-18, 2017

by Nickolas Davis

The 2017 Indoor Men's New England Division III Championship would prove to be
quite challenging for the Engineers of MIT. Unlike recent years, this season's
competition seemed to be wide-open with Tech four-point favorites over the
host Jumbos of Tufts University. Not far behind loomed Middlebury College
seeded for third and the ever-competitive Ephs of Williams College were seeded
a not so distant fourth. Unfortunately for the Engineers, injuries and poorly
timed illnesses looked to dampen MIT's point total and spirits. Despite the
great adversity the team would face, its resolve proved incredibly strong and
Tech would not lie down.

  
The championship started on Friday with the first day of the heptathlon. Tech
Junior, Luke Gray, looked to get the Men of MIT started off on the right foot.
Seeded for 1 point as the 8th-best seed, Gray looked to swing some points
Tech's way by moving up the rankings. The day, however, was not Gray's best,
starting with a 7.94 in the 60m Dash for 577 points. Gray then looked to
improve his Long Jump PR from the week prior but was denied as he jumped 18-07
1/4 for 519 points. Gray's next event, the shot put, typically a strength,
also failed to produce big points for the Junior with a performance of 36-02
3/4 and a point-total of 548. High Jump, the final event of Day One also ended
in disappointing fashion as Gray registered a jump of 5'03" for 464 points.
After Day One, Gray's point total was 2108, leaving him in 12th place. Despite
the average start, Gray remained confident and focused, planning to use his
strengths of the Pole Vault and 1000m to his advantage on Day Two.
Unfortunately, Gray's second day proved similar to the first and started with
a 9.66 in the 60m High Hurdles. Next up, Gray's greatest strength, the Pole
Vault. In what proved to be a long Pole Vault competition, Gray was able to
clear 12-03 1/2 for 549 points, helping him to gain a little ground, but not
significant enough as he remained in 10th place with the 1000m to go. Gray
gritted out the final event, doing everything in his power to make moves but
his gutsy performance kept him in 10th position. Although not his best
heptathlon performance, Gray's spirited competition did not go unnoticed. As
seeded, Williams College got out to an early lead by scoring 18 points and
taking the top two spots with strong performances from their top athletes
Muellers and Riley.

  
Next up for the Engineers was Men's Weight Throw. Although not seeded for
points, Jonathan Fakkema '19 seemed to be in the right mindset to score for
Tech. Fakkema performed well, throwing 49-09 1/4, however, the throw left him
only 3cm from making the finals and ultimately 13cm from scoring. Meanwhile,
at the Long Jump pit, Williams College improved their point total by finishing
3-4-7, giving them a total of 13 points from an event in which they were
seeded to score only 4. Unfortunately, due to injury, Tech's Okeke '17 and
Ruschel '18 were sidelined, which likely would have given MIT points in a
competition that only took 20-08 to make the final.

  
In the Pole Vault, Tech was seeded for 13 with a young group of vaulters.
Although not in expected fashion, MIT maintained their point total of 13 with
Scott Cameron '19 nabbing Tech's first individual championship of the day with
a jump of 15-05. Freshmen Bobby Upton also came through with a 6th place
finish, vaulting a height of 14-11, while Raja Rajcic '20 finished just
outside the scoring in 10th place with a vault of 13-11 1/4.

  
Back on the track, Tech remained hopeful that Aidan Gilson '19 would come up
big in the mile and he certainly delivered. Coming into the competition as the
8th seed, Gilson '19 was poised to move up for some much needed points. As the
race was underway, Gilson slid into 6th place, splitting a 63.1 in the first
400m. At the 800m mark, Gilson slowly began to move up and found himself in
4th position, running a 2:08.9. Gilson then decided that he needed to make a
move, choosing to go with both Serrao and Perlman of Middlebury and moving
strongly into 3rd position. Serrao and Perlman proved a bit too much for
Gilson and began to pull away. With great focus, Gilson stayed strong despite
running alone for nearly 600m. Finally, in the last 50m, Scott from WPI made
one final move to out-kick Gilson who's gutsy performance resulted in a 4th
place finish in a time of 4:17.19, a flat track season best. For Gilson, he
improved his seed by four places and earned 4 more points than seeded.
Middlebury, however, improved their position as well, earning 18 points, 6
over their seed.

  
Following Gilson's strong mile performance, Chris Sweeney '18 took to the 60m
HH. After top-seeded hurdler, Jared Marshall of USM, succumbed to a pulled
hamstring in the 60m dash prelims, there was room to move up for the 60m HH
competitors. Seeded 4th in the event, Sweeney ran a time of 8.51 to win his
preliminary heat and qualify for the final. In the final, Sweeney burst out of
the blocks to run a time of 8.47, earning him 3rd place behind Tufts' Josh
Etkind (8.28) and Bowdoin's Joseph Staudt (8.24) and 6 more points for Tech.

  
In the High Jump, Tech's freshmen trio of Alec Reduker, Chris Washington, and
Steven Speck looked to add to Tech's score. The stage proved to be a bit too
much for Speck '20 to handle, managing a jump of only 6-00 to finish 16th.
Reduker and Washington remained poised, but as the competition heated up, it
was only Washington who was able to maintain his focus. Although Reduker
finished a disappointing 8th, clearing a height of 6-04, Washington stepped
up, clearing 6-06 on his third attempt. After three strong but unsuccessful
attempts at 6-08, Washington finished in 4th place jumping up one spot from
his 5th seeded position. Overall, Tech was seeded to score 12 points in the
event but was only able to manage 6 points, leaving the team in a hole. Tufts'
Junior standout, Stefan Duvivier furthered the damage by winning the
competition with a jump of 6-08, jumping up two spots from his third seed.

  
Back on the track, Tech's 400m tandem of Danny Newman '17 and Tom Frejowski
'19 looked to beat their seeds and come away with a few points. Although
running solid times in the process, Frejowski ran 52.04 and managed 15th
place, while Newman ran a strong race from a slower section and finished one
place out of scoring contention in 9th with a time of 51.16. Once again, Tufts
out-performed their seed in front of the home crowd as Usoff finished 3rd with
a time 50.27, while Middlebury's Martinez won in stunning fashion, running
48.65 and setting a new facility record. Following the 400m, MIT's Tyndale
Hannan '20 looked to make up ground in the 600m. Fighting off illness, Hannan
needed to dig down deep to help the Engineers. Refusing to give in, Hannan '20
started the race toward the back of the field in the fast section, coming
through the 200m at 26.4 and the 400m at 53.9. Hannan then demonstrated his
competitiveness by making a late charge, passing several in the process to
finish 5th in a time of 1:22.79 and scoring 4 more valuable points for MIT. In
what seemed to be a common theme, however, Tufts' DiMaiti took the 600m
individual championship, out-performing his seed to grab ten more points for
the Jumbos.

  
On the Triple Jump runway, Tech looked to Billy Ruschel '18 and Jason
Villanueva '18 to bring in more points. Nursing a strained hamstring, Ruschel
was not expected to compete, meaning a potential loss of 8 points for MIT.
Following warm-ups, Ruschel decided to put it on the line for his team. In an
incredible display of passion and selflessness Ruschel jumped 46-10 from a
considerably shortened approach. Surprisingly, Ruschel's leap led the
competition until the final round when USM's Connor Harris edged him by
jumping 47-00 1/4. Ever the competitor, Ruschel tried to muster a second jump
in an effort to regain the top spot for Tech, however, his hamstring would not
allow him to do so. Meanwhile, Jason Villanueva chose the right time to put
together his season's best performance and indoor PR. Seeded 10th coming into
the competition, Villanueva jumped 44-04 1/4 in his final jump, moving him
into 6th position. That position did not last long however, as Bridgewater's
Cameron Williamson and Bates' Jeffrey Jones passed him on their final jumps of
the competition. When the dust from the sandpit settled, Tech added 9 much-
needed points to their total and the excitement seemed to spread for a while.

  
Following the Triple Jump final, Albritten '18 took to the 60m final. Not
seeded to score in the event, Albritten '18 overcame a mediocre start in the
prelims to run a 7.09 and qualify for the final. In the final, Albritten
ripped off a big PR of 7.02 taking third in the process. The excitement of
Albritten's performance was tempered, however, by the impressive performance
of Tufts' short sprinters who ended up scoring 8 more points than they were
seeded, scoring 14 total points with their 1-6-8 performance.

  
Following the 60m, Nathan Munet '19 took to the oval in the 800m. Sliding to
the back early on in the race, Munet made several attempts to atone for his
poor start, trying to make a series of surges. Splitting 57.3 at the 400m,
Munet's surges only seemed to tire him. Munet finished in 1:57.96, good enough
for 12th place. Meanwhile, Tufts' Watanabe took the win in a time of 1:54.13.
In the 1000m, Gilson '19, recharged from his strong performance in the mile,
completed what was perhaps one of the best doubles of his MIT career. Gilson
got off to a solid start but was gapped around the 800m mark, coming through
in 2:01.9. Gilson seemed to find an extra gear in the last 150m, made a late
kick and came through in a season's best time of 2:30.93, good enough for 4th
place and 5 more points for Tech. Simon Alford '20 also ran a strong race from
the slower section, clocking a 2:33.27, just outside of scoring contention for
10th place.

  
As the meet wore on, it seemed more and more unlikely that Tufts would be
overcome for the team championship. That being said, MIT had some big points
still on the track with the 200m, 3K, 5K and relays remaining. Tech would not
lie down and continued to compete with everything it had. In the 200m, Tre
Albritten '18, the top seed, ripped out of the blocks in the fast section.
From lane 3, Albritten seemed to be making up the stagger on everyone,
entering the second turn. At the top of the turn, however, adversity struck
again as Albritten re-aggravated a hamstring injury causing him to pull up and
jog into the finish in a time of 24.29. Tech's loss of 10 points was a huge
blow to the team, but their resolve remained strong with the distance races up
next.

  
In the 3K, senior captain Matthew Deyo and Freshmen Josh Derrick looked to
make up lost ground from the 200m race. Although Derrick '20 struggled in his
New England Division III Championship debut, Deyo ran a fantastic race,
sitting in 4th place after the 2K mark while Williams' Hale controlled the
race from start to finish. Hale proved to be too strong to catch, however,
Deyo ran incredibly smart, surged ahead, and held off a late kick from Tufts'
Nichols in the last lap. Deyo finished second overall in a time of 8:22.12,
which currently ranks 7th in NCAA Division III. Derrick finished in 8:46.88
for 16th. In the 5K, Tech's Dennis Maloney '19 absolutely dominated the field,
gaining an early lead, extending the gap around the 2-mile mark, and kept his
foot on the gas. Maloney '19 controlled the entire race and cruised in for the
victory in New England Division III Championship record time, finishing in
14:33.73. Meanwhile, Tech hoped for a few others to step up and grab points.
Unfortunately, 7th-seeded Rory Beyer '17 was unable to overcome an illness he
had been dealing with all week. Giving everything he had, Beyer had to walk
off the track and was treated by the athletic training staff as he was
severely dehydrated. Daniel Weiss '19 and David Walter '18 also fought hard,
but the competition proved to be too much as Walter '18 finished in a solid
time of 15:20.24 for 9th while Weiss '19 ran 15:37.11 for 16th. As Tech dealt
with continuing adversity, Williams showed that they were not going away. In
the 3K and 5K, Williams College was able to score 23 points and were in 2nd
place behind Tufts heading into the relays. Williams, however, was only seeded
to score 3 points in the relays and would have to run fast times from the slow
sections of the DMR and 4x800m.

  
In the Distance Medley Relay, Tech readied themselves for a big performance
after watching Williams College post a very competitive time of 10:21.86 from
the slow section. In the fast section, MIT was led by Freshmen Simon Alford
'20 in the 1200m leg. Alford got off to a great start running the first 800m
in the 3rd position, splitting a 2:09.8 in the process. Then, in stunning
fashion, Alford blew open a huge gap during the last 400m, passing the baton
off in a 1200m split of 3:09.7 and earning Tech a sizeable lead. Ken Acquah
'20 grabbed the baton and ran a strong 400m leg of 53.4. Although the gap
narrowed a bit, Acquah maintained the lead into the 800m leg run by senior
captain, Henry Tareque. Tareque initially worked to extend the lead, splitting
57.1 through the first 400m, however, Tufts and Bowdoin began to reel him in
and eventually passed him in the last 50m before he handed it off to Josh
Rosenkranz '19 for the final leg. Rosenkranz fought hard to regain the lead,
running a 2:07.1 800m split but in the end did not have quite enough in the
tank to overcome the runners from Tufts and Bowdoin, finishing his leg in a
split of 4:23.3 and an overall time of 10:28.22. When the results came in,
Williams College was declared the victor, winning the DMR from the slow
section for the second year in a row. MIT was able to place 4th, earning 5
more points.

  
The 4x400m relay was the next event on the track. Since MIT had not earned a
seed high enough to be in the fast section for the relay, running for time
rather than place was the focus. Although MIT had lost Tre Albritten '18 to a
hamstring pull earlier in the meet, Tom Frejowski '19 remained poised to
compete to the best of his ability. The relay opened with a 51.0 split from
Chris Sweeney '18, giving Tech a solid start to a competitive race. Brandon
Corts '17 followed that up with a 52.0 split losing a little ground in the
process. Tom Frejowski '19 followed Corts by running one of his fastest splits
on a flat track all year, coming in at 51.5. Anchor Danny Newman '17 tried to
make up the distance in the final leg making a move early to improve his
position but in the end could not explode off the final turn. When all
sections were finished, MIT had earned 8th place with a time of 3:25.96. With
only 1 point from the 4x400m, Tech, now fighting for second place, was down 9
points to Williams College with the 4x800m relay to go.

  
Entering the 4x800m relay, Tech understood the only chance it had of earning
second place was to win the relay outright while Williams could not score.
Although it was unlikely that this would happen, Tech's focus and
determination was not rattled in the least. Following another strong
performance from Williams College from the slow section, who ran a time of
7:59.36, the Engineers of MIT demonstrated their pride and passion by putting
everything they had into the final race. As the gun sounded, Nathan Munet '19
did not make the same mistake as he did in the open 800m and positioned
himself nicely in the first 400m, splitting a 57.1. In the last 200m, Munet
opened up a slight lead and handed the baton to Brian Bates '20, splitting a
1:57.0 in the process. Bates, a late addition to the 4x800m due to injury,
performed incredibly well and was ready to make the most of his opportunity.
After splitting a 59.0 in his first 400m, Bates lost his slight lead. On his
last turn, Bates was able to regroup and regain the lead handing the baton off
to Billy Woltz '20 and finishing in a split of 2:00. Woltz fought extremely
hard in his leg, being challenged all the way. Woltz split a 57.6 at the 400m
mark, but couldn't quite hold on, getting passed in the last 70m by both Coast
Guard and Middlebury. Finishing his leg in a solid 2:00.5, Woltz handed the
stick to Tyndale Hannan '20 in 3rd position. Coming off of his gutsy 600m
performance while fighting off illness, Hannon's determination continued to
impress as he fought hard to make several moves on the straight away in the
first 400m. After splitting a 56.8, Hannan did not seem to have enough left to
mount another attack, but fended off Connecticut College and WPI, finishing in
a split of 1:59.1 and an overall time of 7:57.15 which was good enough for 3rd
place.

  
As the final scores came in, MIT found itself in 3rd place with a total of 84
points, trailing only Williams College (92) and host Tufts University (127).
On paper, MIT's finish may have been perceived as a devastating loss from a
team accustomed to winning. In reality, Tech's performance proved to be hard-
fought, passionate display from a team torn by injury and illness.

  
Over the next two weeks, at the NEICAAA Championship at the Reggie Lewis
Center in Boston and the Final Qualifying meet at Tufts, MIT will try to
strengthen their position for the NCAA Division III Championship in three
weeks. Currently, Albritten ranks number one in the 200, but his hamstring may
not recover in time. Maloney is pretty solid in the 5K, ranked third and Deyo
is ranked seventh in the 3K and ninth in the 5K. Ruschel is also ranked
seventh in the Triple Jump. Getting another competitor or two qualified would
certainly bode well for the Engineers.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**In Every Sense of The Word, This NED3 Win Was a Team Effort**

February 17-18, 2017

Going into the New England Division III Women's Indoor Track & Field
Championship, despite the 37 entered teams, it was clear it was going to be a
dual meet between MIT and Williams College with regard to which team would
outlast the other and come away with the championship.  Williams entered the
meet 11 point favorites based on the seeds, but MIT was the two-time defending
champion and that defense would be on their home track.

There are not two teams anywhere that bring more support for their teammates
than MIT and Williams.  That support was loud and clear throughout the two day
meet, but definitely rose to a deafening level in the final three events.

The meet began on Friday with the Pentathlon.  Natalie Alper '17, competing
after being out a little over a week with a foot injury, was charged with
trying to do battle in the Pent. with the two Williams competitors.  Scoring a
personal best 3142 points, she earned fifth place with marks of 10.15 in the
60HH, 5-3 1/4 in the High Jump, 26-11 1/2 in the Shot Put, 16-6 in the Long
Jump and a 2:27 victory in the 800.  Williams earned a third place, but was
seeded to win.  While MIT was now down by a score of six to four using the
10-8-6-5-4-3-2-1 scoring format, they were up plus three on the expected teams
scores.

Saturday began with the Long Jump, Pole Vault and Weight Throw, events where
MIT was favored to do well.  Nneoma Okonkwo '18 took her first jump and won
the Long Jump at 18-8 even with her take-off behind the board.  Haley Strouf
'18 pulled out an 18-2 1/4 leap on her final attempt to earn a three way tie
for second, but ended up fourth with the tie-breaker.  Williams College earned
second and third, so they earned one more point  and MIT one less point than
seeded.

In the Weight Throw, Ariela Slutsky '18 and Jackie Vahey '17 were representing
the Engineers.  Both performed well, throwing 55-7 1/4 and 52-1 1/2
respectively, earning third and fourth, which was exactly how they were
seeded.  The thrower from Williams did really well, earning eighth place and a
point they were not expected to get.

The Pole Vault has been MIT's answer whenever points are needed as long as
Patrick Barragan has been coaching, and this was no different.  Kaitlyn Sparks
'20, not only broke the freshman record held by Cimmy Virdi '16 with a clear
of 12-1 1/2, but led four of her teammates to All New England status with her
second place finish.  Kari Stromhaug '19 took fourth at 11-7 3/4 and Kathleen
Brandes '19 claimed fifth at the same height.  Makenzie Patarino '19 and Jen
Tylock '17 tied for sixth at 11-1 3/4, giving MIT 22 points when they had been
seeded to get 15.  Williams earned one less point than expected as their
vaulter finished eighth.  The score after these first four events was MIT 52,
Williams 22.

While those events were finishing up, the running events were getting started.
The DMR was first and Tech was intent on getting the 10 points for the win.
With a number of middle-distance runners injured, the burden to carry the load
was falling to a select few.  Fresh off of her 5:04 mile last week, Clemmie
Mitchell '18 would lead off with the 1200.  Jane Reed '20 would run the 400,
Bailey Tregoning '19 the 800 and Katie Bacher '20 the 1600 anchor.  All would
be returning in one or two more events, but for now were only focused on the
task at hand.  Mitchell got the job done, working her way up through the pack,
gradually picking up the pace as she went.  Her first quarter was the planned
75.  She then picked up the pace to split 2:29 as she started to run away with
the lead to hand-off in 3:41.9.  Reed took the baton and extended the lead
with an aggressive and well run 60.0.  Tregoning, expected to win the open 800
later in the meet as well as a key relay leg in the final event, the 4x800,
was instructed to just run 2:20.  She ran 2:19.4, but not quite the way it was
planned, leading off with a 31 first lap despite thinking she was holding
back.  After a 65 400 she got the message to slow down, which she did.
Bacher, also coming back in two events (1000 and 4x800) was trying to run just
fast enough to secure the victory.  Running mid-77 second quarters, Bacher
maintained her lead with her 5:10 cruise to victory.  MIT was seeded to win
and Williams to get fourth.  However, the Ephs earned third place, making the
score 62 to 28.

The 5K was next and it was Williams turn to do some damage.  They were seeded
for 22 points and earned second, third and fifth for 19 points.  Mary Eccles
'18 placed fourth and Leandra Zimmermann '19 eighth for six points.  MIT had
been seeded to score nine, so both teams scored three less than expected.

The Triple Jump and High Jump were getting going on the infield, two more
events where Williams was seeded to do very well.  Jasmine Jin '20 not only
made the final in the Triple Jump, but placed an unexpected seventh to earn
two big points for MIT.  Williams, seeded for 14, earned 16, gaining big
points on Tech, but staying even with MIT in regard to expected score.  Alper
returned in the High Jump, but could only manage 5-1 1/4 for ninth place, one
place out of the scoring.  Williams was seeded for 22 and got all of them,
making the cumulative score 70 for MIT and 85 for Williams.

The event that may have had the largest effect on the meet was the 4x200
Relay.  Williams, seeded to place second, was actually in first with twenty
meters to go.  As Southern Maine was passing them, the Williams runner leaned
too much to try and secure the victory, and fell before she could get to the
line.  By the time she got up it was too late and she did not finish.  Those
were eight points they could not afford to lose.  MIT did not enter a team.

Maryann Gong '17 took the lead in the Mile Run a bit too soon, putting a
target on her back as she was unable to run away from the field.  Despite a
final 400 of 70, she lost the race at the line, 4:59.01 to 4:59.40.  Marissa
McPhillips '20, who suffered from what seemed like Foster's Collapse in cross
country, again had the issue at the end of the Mile, still managing to finish
in seventh for two points.  While MIT scored five less than they were seeded,
Williams earned all six of those they were expected to score.

Hannah Chen '18 was not seeded to even make the final in the 60HH, much less
score.  The junior surprised all by making it to the final and then placing
seventh in 9.31.  Williams, seeded to place seventh, did not score.  Slowly
MIT was creeping back.  The score was now MIT 82, Williams 91.

Chen was back on the line in the very next event, the 400.  She had done this
double last year as well, and fortunately there were four sections of which
she was in the last, giving her a little more recovery.  Although she ran the
first 200 very slow and was in last, she moved up in the final 200 to place
fifth in 59.59.  While Chen scored one more point than she was seeded,
Williams earned four more points than they were seeded as their runner placed
second.

With her success last week in the 600, Gabriella Zak '20 was seeded sixth.
This was an area where the talented freshman could move up in the scoring.
However, being a novice and not controlling her excitement, she went out too
fast, taking the lead through the first 200 in 29.2.  In the final 200 she
faded badly to seventh place in 1:39.56.  Williams earned six points, four
less than expected.

Back on the infield, Ariela Slutsky came through big in the Shot Put.  The
junior was seeded eighth, but threw 40-3 to place fourth, giving her team five
big points.  The score was now Williams 105, MIT 92.

The 60 Meter Dash, an event in which the Engineers were seeded to score eight,
turned into 12 as Okonkwo delivered a 7.79 PR and new MIT record, which puts
her at 10th on the NCAA list to go along with her number two ranking in the
Long Jump.  Michelle Menkiti '20 showed she is a championship competitor as
she went from being the ninth seed to placing fifth in a new MIT freshman
record of 7.96.  Williams, seeded to place third and eighth only got the
third.

Tregoning was back up on in the 800 and it was time to see how much the first
800 took out of her.  The sophomore listened well, not taking the lead until
the final 200.  The pace was solid at 67 for the 400 and 1:41 for the 600, but
Tregoning dropped a 33 final 200 to finish first in 2:14.36 and looked as
though there was more in the tank.  Williams had no one entered in the event,
so MIT was finally back in the lead 114 to 111 for Williams.

It was now Bacher's turn to show what she had left after anchoring the DMR.
The freshman ran perhaps the best race of her young career.  She slid up to
second early in the race and battled Teaford of Williams throughout the final
lap, just missing the victory at the line 2:57.16 to 2:57.22.  McPhillips was
also entered in the 1000 for MIT, but was still getting attention from the
athletic trainers and was not yet cleared to race.  The score was now a one
point difference, 122 for Tech and 121 for Williams.

The 200 held a lot of potential for MIT.  Seeded to score five, Okonkwo, Chen
and Menkiti could have done some real damage, but it was not to be.  Menkiti
came through with a seventh place out of the third fastest section, but that
was all MIT was able to score.  Williams also seeded to score five, only
scored three, but that was enough to tie up the score with only three events
to go.

The 3K held big promise for MIT as Maryann Gong would be coming back from the
Mile earlier and a bevy of Tech runners were in the field, although none were
seeded to score.  Williams was also seeded to score well, but both of their
runners were doubling back as well.  Gong ran the perfect race, sitting behind
the leader regardless of the pace.  Jessica Wilson '17 of Bates tried to shake
her by throwing in a couple of 79 second quarters and then a 78, but Gong was
comfortable and determined.  With a lap to go Gong dropped a 33 final 200 to
run away with the victory in 9:55.99.  No other MIT runners scored and
Williams only managed a fourth place for five points.  With only the 4x400 and
4x800 Relays to go MIT would be up five points.

The dilemma for MIT was not enough bodies, at least fresh bodies.
Fortunately, McPhillips was cleared to race, and she felt pretty good,
although she was obviously nervous she might collapse again when her team
needed her most, she was determined to get the job done.  Assuming Williams
had more than enough capable runners, MIT wanted to try and put together the
two best teams possible.  The 4x400 would be Chen, Reed, Alper and Zak and the
4x800 McPhillips, Bacher, Gong and Tregoning.  If the wheels did not fall off
MIT had a good chance of securing the victory.  The noise produced by the MIT
team was there to propel the most fatigued runner to victory.

Running in the second fastest section, MIT knew they needed to win that
section.  Chen got out better than she did in the open 400, but did not finish
as well, splitting 61.6.  Reed, hoping for another 60.0, raced well, but only
split 61.8.  Alper picked up the slack and delivered an unexpected 60.6.  Zak
went out hard in 27.6 and had the lead but lost it at the line despite a
strong 58.8.  Their 4:02.77 was a season best for MIT.  Now Tech had to wait
to see what would happen in the fast section.  Bates and Williams battled each
other for all four legs of the relay with Bates prevailing.  The other teams
were so far back that MIT was able to secure fourth place overall.  The score
was now MIT 139, Williams 137, meaning MIT only had to beat Williams in the
4x800 and the championship was theirs.

McPhillips led off, taking the lead half-way through to knock out a 2:20.7
split.  Bacher, running her third event of the day, ran alone, but again
hammered out a consistent pace to split 2:22.1, maintaining the lead.
Williams was unable to keep up and was falling back during the second leg.
Gong took over after already having put in over 4600 meters and just having
finished the 3K about 25 minutes earlier.  She hammered out a steady pace to
expand the lead with a 2:21.8 split. Tregoning took over, having never tripled
before and very concerned about her ability to stay on her feet.  However, she
trusted her coaching.  Her initial 200, again trying to run a controlled pace,
was a 31.  She intentionally slowed, but only to a 65 400.  The lead was huge
and Tregoning looked solid.  She obviously tired, but not much, cruising in
with a 2:15.7 for a 9:20.67 performance.  MIT won the event by 11 seconds,
giving them a 149 to 140 team victory, their third in three years.

With two weekends to go before the NCAA Championship, MIT will be resting most
of their athletes who have qualified for Nationals and trying to get a final
performance or two to make the field for those who are close.  The remainder
of the team will begin preparation for the Outdoor season.



RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Average Performances Set The Tone For MIT at NEICAAA Championship

February 24-25, 2017

It is not unusual for the MIT Track & Field team to have rather average
performances as they come down and recover from the emotional high from last
week's New England Division III Track & Field Championship.  This, along with
the general lack of a competitive atmosphere at the NEICAAA Championship this
weekend made it difficult for some of the athletes to get up for the meet.

The NEICAAA Championship, was once the highlight of each season as the best
athletes from Division I, II and III competed against each other in each of
the three seasons (cross country, indoor track & field, outdoor track &
field).  Chasing the best opportunities for each athlete became a higher
priority for many programs that were more concerned about qualifying
individuals for Nationals than how well the team placed in a particular meet
or championship.  This philosophy gained traction, so more and more programs
have gone in this direction.  In addition, conferences and other championships
were added to the indoor season, which inevitably caused conflicts with the
NEICAAA meet.  The final straw happened this past year when due to the
extremely high rental cost of using the Boston University facility, the
association moved the meet to the Reggie Lewis track, a much slower banked
track than the one at BU.  Unfortunately, the NCAA provides the same
corrective indexing for all banked or over-sized tracks.  For those programs
trying to get their athletes to Regionals or Nationals, the Reggie Lewis track
does not present the best alternative for oval runners.

On day one of the championship, the highlight was provided by Haley Strouf '18
in the Long Jump.  Strouf placed third with a personal best jump of 18-6 1/2.
Nneoma Okonkwo '18 won the event with a 19-1 1/4 effort, giving MIT 16 points
in the event.  At this time, Okonkwo and Strouf rank second and 13th in the
country for Division III.

Tech had five vaulters in the women's Pole Vault and three of them ended up
placing, although none had personal bests.  Kaitlyn Sparks '20 placed third at
11-11 3/4 and is sitting in 16th on the NCAA list with her 12-1 1/2 vault from
last week. Kari Stromhaug '19 tied for fourth at 11-7 3/4 and Jen Tylock '17
was sixth at 11-1 3/4.  This gave Tech another 13 1/2 points.  While not
placing, Makenzie Patarino '19 and Kathleen Brandes '19 jumped 11-1 3/4 and
10-8 respectively.

The other points for the Engineers on day one were earned by Ariela Slutsky
'18 in the Weight Throw.  Although she had a wasted big throw that was a
sector foul, her best on this day was 52-5 1/4, which was good for seventh
place, giving MIT 31 1/2 points at the conclusion of day one.  Slutsky is
sitting at 18th on the NCAA list and only the top 17 get to go.

On the track Marissa McPhillips '20 qualified for the final in the 800 with a
2:15.98.  Making a couple of strategic errors with regard to position, the
freshman knows she needs to fix those in the finals.

In the 500, Bailey Tregoning '19 and Gabriella Zak '20 were representing MIT
and both were in the same heat.  The pace for the first 200 was quick at 28.8,
which caused Zak to think, essentially ending her competitive race.  Tregoning
moved up on the second lap, but made a decision to pass too conservatively and
too late on the straight.  The opposing runner swung her arm out, grabbing
Tregoning and not letting her pass.  This took Tregoning out of her game long
enough to keep her from racing her best.  She managed to earn the final
qualifying position in 1:17.55, far removed from what she is capable of
running.

In the 400 Hannah Chen '18 continued to struggle.  Getting out better than in
previous meets, her 27.6 caused her undue fatigue.  She struggled in the final
200, finishing in 59.51.  After qualifying for the NCAA Championship the past
two years, the junior has one week remaining to get the job done.

For the men, both Chris Washington '20 and Alec Reduker '20 placed in the High
Jump.  Although neither jumper accomplished what they hoped for, Washington
tied for fifth at 6-6 1/4 and Reduker tied for eighth at 6-4 1/4.  Both are
tied for 22nd place on the NCAA list

Bobby Upton '20 cleared 14-11 in the Pole Vault, earning a tie for seventh.
The freshman has one more chance to earn a trip to Nationals.  Upton and
teammate Scott Cameron '19 are tied on the NCAA list at 26th.

In the 800, both Nathan Munet '19 and Tyndale Hannan '20 were hoping to run
fast enough to get another opportunity to race next week.  Munet ran a solid
race, going with the field through quick splits of 27 and 55 seconds.  His 600
was a very solid 1:23, but was unable to close well from there, slowing to a
1:55.05.  Hannan raced as if he needs a mental and physical break.  He moved
to the back of the pack and was never in it, running 1:58.84.

Day two began with Chris Sweeney '18 in the 60HH.  Getting a solid start
Sweeney finished second in his heat, running a season best 8.37.  Sweeney
missed the finals by one position

Based on her near national qualifying 7.79 60 Meter Dash performance the week
before, Okonkwo needed to work on her start and other phases of her race.
While not having the best race, the junior still ran a very respectable 7.88,
missing the finals.  She currently sits at 18th on the NCAA list.

Tech was represented by two runners in the women's Mile.  Both Katie Bacher
'20 and Clemmie Mitchell '18 were in the fast section.  The pace of the leader
was very fast.  The race for second place was quite fast as well as both MIT
runners came through the 400 in 72 and they were towards the back of the pack.
The pace slowed and both Bacher and Mitchell moved up in the pack, splitting
2:27 at the halfway mark.  The pace slowed further, even for Bacher who
continued to move up in the pack, splitting 3:43 at the 1320.  Mitchell had a
period where she gave up and that was much of the third quarter as she fell
back to 3:47.  In the final 400 Bacher ran out of gas but still ran a PR of
4:59.46 for fifth place.  Mitchell woke up with 300 to go, finishing in 74 for
a PR of 5:01.01 for seventh place.  Bacher is 17th on the NCAA list and
Mitchell is 29th.

In the men's Mile, Aidan Gilson '19 was trying again to find the competitive
spark to keep him fully engaged in the race in order to run to his potential.
The fast section went out quick and even though Gilson was towards the back he
came through the 440 in 62.6. Gilson moved up well throughout the race, but
after a split of 2:06 he lost the battle with his focus for most of the third
quarter.  In the final quarter he re-engaged, finishing with a 61 to place
fifth in a personal best of 4:13.33.  Gilson is 28th on the NCAA list.

Tregoning was up next for the final of the 500. She ran a near perfect first
200, splitting 28.2, but since she was so far behind it appeared she lost
hope.  During the second 200 she settled, splitting 59.2, but then finished
with an 18 final 100 as she gave up a little in the final 60-70 meters.  Her
final time of 1:17.32 was good for seventh place.  Tregoning is third on the
NCAA list in the 800.

The final running event for MIT was the final of the women's 800.  McPhillips
competed without reservation, but that meant getting pulled out in splits of
31, 64 and 1:38.  Throughout this pace she moved up in the field, all the way
to fourth place before hitting a wall in the final 100 after trying to move
into third place.  In the final 50 she lost three places to finish in seventh
with a hard earned time of 2:15.72.  McPhillips is in 19th position on the
National list in the Mile and 24th in the 800.

MIT's final competitor was Natalie Alper '17 in the High Jump.  Alper cleared
the opening height of 5-3 1/4, but was unable to clear 5-6.

Next week, MIT will go to the Final Qualifier at Tufts University for their
last opportunity to prepare for the NCAA Division III Indoor Track & Field
Championship. The Engineers will have to work on recovery and up their game if
they wish to go into the National Championship with a chance of making the
podium.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**MIT Pole Vaulters Dominate Tufts Stampede**

January 27-28, 2017

There were not a ton of outstanding performances by MIT's Track and Field team
at the Tufts University Stampede Invitational, but the pole vaulters certainly
took advantage of the opportunity.  Most of the top runners, sans distance
runners, were over at BU's Terrier Classic, but MIT had nearly all of the
field event competitors, who were not given the weekend off, over at Tufts.

Bobby Upton '20 cleared another personal best, this one 15-5, narrowly missing
the MIT Freshman Record in the Pole Vault, set by teammate Scott Cameron '19
last year.  Cameron claimed second with his season best of 14-11.  The women
ruled as well.  Kaitlyn Sparks '20 cleared 11-5 3/4 for a season best and
indoor PR.  Jen Tylock '17, Kathleen Brandes '19, Kari Stromhaug '19 and
Makenzie Patarino '19 all cleared 10-11 3/4.

The other big event was the 3K.  Matt Deyo 'G led the men with a second place
8:23.36, good for third on the NCAA list.  Dennis Maloney '19 was fourth in
8:29.20.  Both performances were personal bests.  Also running well was Josh
Derrick '20 at 8:42.97.  Megan McCandless '20 continues her comeback as she
led the Tech distance squad with a 10:10.93.  Leandra Zimmermann '19 also ran
well with a 10:19.41.

On Friday evening Natalie Alper '17 set a PR of 3137 points in the Pentathlon.
Alper tied her best in the High Jump, clearing 5-5 1/4 along the way.

Jon Fakkema '19 threw a personal best of 51-10 in the Weight Throw as he
continues his improvement.

Next weekend, MIT will be back at Tufts for the Cupid Challenge Invitational.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**Women Rock the NCAA Division III National Rankings**

January 27-28, 2017

While MIT's Women's Track & Field team sent a select few over to the Boston
University John Thomas Terrier Classic, those individuals threw down some
impressive performances that fired a warning shot to the rest of Division III.
Although six weeks remains until Nationals and everyone's best performances
are still to come, this weekend's performances are an excellent starting
point.

Bailey Tregoning '19 established the leading time in the 800 for NCAA Division
III by running 2:12.08.  There was obviously more in the tank as it was clear
she was thinking she took the lead too soon after a 1:36 600 split.  Running
sub 2:10 is certainly a possibility this season.  Also in that event, but a
different section was Marissa McPhillips '20.  The freshman ran a superb race,
clocking 2:15.31 as she nearly even split the quarters.

Although not an NCAA Division III Championship event, Katie Bacher '20 showed
her talent as she ran a freshman and varsity record in 2:55.01 for the 1000
Meters.  After coming through the 400 in 68.5, Bacher slowed a bit to hit the
half in 2:19.9, but then finished in 35 for her record setting performance.

Maryann Gong '17 was in a very fast section of the Mile and it had her a bit
nervous.  She was reacting to too many moves and not owning the race, but
still ran an impressive 4:53.67, the second fastest time in all of Division
III thus far in the indoor season. The senior has much improvement ahead of
her as she learns to relax during the race.

Hannah Chen '18 established season bests in both the 200 and 400, running
25.96 and 58.16.

Ariela Slutsky '18 threw a PR in the Weight Throw, establishing the 11th best
throw in the country at 55-06 1/4

On the next morning, the quartet of McPhillips, Chen, Tregoning and Gong were
aiming to run a solid national qualifying time and possibly break the MIT
record of 11:34.20.  McPhillips led off with the 1200 leg. Unfortunately, the
Engineers were the top seed on the inside alley with the top team, Boston
College on the outside alley.  By the time it was clear the inside alley was
going out too slow, it was too late.  McPhillips split a reasonable, but
slower than hoped for, 35.6.  She stayed with the pack through another 200 for
a 70.1 400.  She took the lead on her pack, but was too far behind BC to set
her sights on them, basically running by herself for the remainder of the leg.
She split 3:36.8, which was solid, but at least two seconds slower than she
wanted.  Chen ran a very smooth 400, but also had no one to chase or run with.
Her 57.5 kept Tech on pace to qualify but the record was slipping away.
Tregoning went out great in 31.8 and 64.9.  Although she was not real fatigued
she simply did not know how hard she could push as she is still a relative
novice to this level of racing.  Her final 400 was  a 69.6 for a 2:14.5
overall split.  Gong took the baton and truly went after it.  Her first 400
was a 71.7 and exactly what she wanted.  However she slowed without really
being aware of it, running 73.9 and 74.9.  Fortunately she was coming up fast
on BC at that point, but could still only manage another 74.9 to give MIT a
second place 11:45.94.  That time is now the top time in Division III and has
always qualified for the National Championship.  The Engineers will probably
run it one more time prior to Nationals.

The men's meet, at least for MIT started with the 800.  Both Nathan Munet '19
and Tyndale Hannan '20 were in the same section.  Both resisted the urge to
get pulled out with the leaders, who were running 53-54 pace.  Hannan came
through in 56.9, but had already disengaged from the race, running the third
200 in 30.2.  Munet remained engaged, coming through in 56.0 and 1:25.2.
Munet moved up well in the final 200 to finish in 1:54.60.  Hannan actually
was able to re-engage, finishing well to clock a 1:55.07.

Danny Newman '17 and Tom Frejowski '19 were both in the 400 and both ran
season bests, with Frejowski running an indoor PR.  Newman split 23.9 en route
to his 50.65.  Frejowski also split 23.9 and closed well after settling on the
backstretch to finish in 51.11.

In the Mile Run, Tech was represented by Aidan Gilson '19.  After four runners
broke 4:00 in the fast section and the following sections all went out fast
and finished under 4:10, there was hope the same would happen in Gilson's
section.  However, the 2:08 first 800 had people tripping over each other's
feet and elbowing the entire time.  All the contact took it out of Gilson, who
nearly landed on his face after being tripped.  His final time was 4:20.31

The final event for MIT was the 4x400 Relay.  There was not much hope of
qualifying for Nationals while missing two of the key legs, but qualifying for
the fast section of the New England Division III Championship was a goal.
Frejowski had a poor start and fell out of the race in the first turn.  By the
time he handed off at 52.3 he was 30 meters behind.  Hannan ran an excellent
leg without competition, splitting 49.9, but not making up any ground.  Munet,
despite still being sick, delivered a solid 50.6 as he handed off to Newman.
Newman just did not get out well, splitting 24.5 at the 200 and finishing with
a 53.1.  The overall time was 3:26.13.  Job not accomplished.

Next week, MIT will compete most of their team at Tufts for their Cupid
Challenge Invitational.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**Four Freshman Records Lead Engineers at Tufts Cupid Challenge**

February 4, 2017

While the premier event of the Tufts Cupid Challenge was undoubtedly the men's
5K, where the top two finishers, Tim Nichols '17 of Tufts and Dennis Maloney
'19 of MIT took over the top two marks in the country for Division III with
their 14:19.45 and 14:26.80 respectively, the overall leading theme of the day
was the four freshman records produced by the rookie Engineers.  Tyndale
Hannan '20 won the 600 in 1:22.66 for the first record of the day.
Immediately afterwards, Skylar Brooks '20 ran 1:40.70 to set the women's
rookie 600 record.  In the next event, Michelle Menkiti '20 broke the rookie
60 Meter Dash record by running an 8.04.  At the end of the meet, the quartet
of Jane Reed '20, Katie Bacher '20, Brooks and Marissa McPhillips '20, all
doubling back, ran 4:07.90 to blow away the freshman record.

The non-scoring invitational allowed MIT to focus on marks rather than the
victory.  Two weeks from the start of the Championship season Tech knew there
was urgency in getting top performances in order to either qualify or put
themselves in position to be in the seeded section of their event.  While
Maloney almost certainly qualified for the NCAA Division III Championship in
March, teammates David Walter '18 (15:18.66), Ben Freed '18 (15:21.66), and
Daniel Weiss '19 (15:23.50) all qualified for the New England Division III
Championship in the 5K.

Aidan Gilson '19 had his best day of the season as he improved his Mile time
to 4:20.06 and then came back with a strong 1000, running 2:32.18.

Tom Frejowski '19 had a solid day, but still has more as his last 50 meters in
the 400 proved.  The sophomore came from behind to run 51.53 for an indoor PR,
just beating teammate Danny Newman '17, who clocked 51.63.  Ken Acquah '20 is
also starting the come around as the walk-on sprinter ran 53.59 and then came
back with a fine 23.69 in the 200.  Newman ran a season best 23.36 in the 200
and Frejowski finished in 23.59.  None are a threat to score in the NED3
Championship at this point, but the hope is that one or more will find it in
the final week of competition leading into the championship.

Returning from a two month injury, Simon Alford '20 ran an inspired 1:58.52
for his first race back.  Joe Faraguna '20 also made his debut, running
2:02.79.  There is hope the duo, along with Ian McNally '20, can come back and
make an impact in the Championships.

In the field events, Raja Rajcic '20 jumped a personal best in the Pole Vault,
clearing 14-5 1/4 to finish just behind teammates Scott Cameron '19 (14-11)
and Bobby Upton '20 (14-11).  Cody Bratten '18 continues to improve from his
early season elbow surgery, throwing 45-8 1/2 to win the Shot Put.  Steven
Speck '20 jumped a season best and collegiate PR of 6-4 in the High Jump,
finishing behind event winner and teammate Alec Reduker '20 at 6-8.

The women's 5K was supposed to be equal to the men's as a premier event, but
Megan McCandless '20 having to pull out after an 11:01 3200 split due to a
plantar fasciitis flareup and Mary Eccles '18 falling off the 17:20 pace early
on, turned the race into a NED3 qualifying event for MIT.  Eccles ran 17:59.46
and was followed by Leandra Zimmermann '19 in a PR of 18:08.21.  An inspired
victory in the slow section by Bailee Margolis '19 in 18:11.37 led her
teammates to qualifying marks; Jenna Melanson '20 (18:43.67); Ciera Gordon '18
(18:44.36); and Charlotte Folinus '20 (18:45.54).

There were many excellent performances by the women on the track.  Hannah Chen
'18 is starting to find her groove in the 60HH as she ran 9.26 in the final to
win the event.  Menkiti returned from the 60 to blast an indoor PR of 26.48 in
the 200.  Jane Reed '20 ran an indoor PR of 61.43 as she continues to improve
almost every week.  Overshadowing Brooks's freshman record in the 600 was the
overwhelming victory by Bailey Tregoning '19 as she ran 1:36.37.  In the 1000,
Marissa McPhillips '20 hammered out a vicious pace on the flat track,
splitting 68 and 2:20, but could not hold it, slowing to a 2:58.82, still a
PR.  However, Maryann Gong '17 was right with McPhillips the entire way, but
had a strong finish to win in a PR of 2:55.87.  Prior to the 4x400, Bacher was
in the Mile Run.  Fresh off her 2:55 MIT record from last week, Bacher showed
her confidence as she eased up past the leaders and pushed the final 600 in
the lead to win in 5:00.76, currently the fifth fastest in Division III.
Clemmie Mitchell '18 ran a well-paced, negative split 3K to win in 10:27.93.

In the field events, Ariela Slutsky '18 showed she is getting ready for the
Championships.  For the second week in succession, she threw a personal best
in the Weight Throw. Her 56-00 victory is the 14th best throw in all of
Division III.  The junior then turned around to throw another PR, 39-10 1/2 in
the Shot Put.  Kathleen Brandes '19 won the Pole Vault in a PR of 11-5 3/4.
Matching their season best, also clearing 11-5 3/4 were Kari Stromhaug '19 and
Kaitlyn Sparks '20.

Next week, MIT will split their squad, sending the top oval runners and a few
field athletes to the Boston University David Hemery Valentines Invitational
and the rest of their squad to the MIT Gordon Kelly Invitational.



RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**MIT Splits Squad -- Tregoning, Albritten Set Varsity Records, Zak
Establishes Freshman Record**

February 10-11, 2017

With one week remaining before the New England Division III Championship, MIT
split their squad to take advantage of the best opportunities.  Many of the
oval runners would compete at the Boston University David Hemery Valentine
Invitational while sprinters, hurdlers and field event athletes were mostly at
MIT for the Gordon Kelly Invitational.

In the first event for MIT at the BU meet, Tech's top two long jumpers, Nneoma
Okonkwo '18 and Haley Strouf '18 did very well in their premier event.
Okonkwo jumped 18-7 1/4 on her first attempt in the finals, while Strouf
jumped 18-3 3/4 on her final attempt for a new PR that moves her to #4 on the
New England Division III list and #11 on the National list.

Bailey Tregoning '19 was then up in the 800.  On an inside stagger, the
sophomore got out well, but did not quite guage the break as she ended up
getting pushed to the back.  She panicked a little, made an aggressive move to
get out of a box, which was an unnecessary use of energy.  From that point on
she ran a flawless race, hitting the 400 in 63.1.  She moved up to second as
she came through the 600 in 1:36 and looked good through the 700 where her
aggressive move came back to bite her.  Although her final 100 was slower she
still ran a 2:10.92, a new MIT record, and the second fastest time in all of
Division III.

In the 400 the Engineers were represented by Hannah Chen '18. Only the fastest
sections were allowed the use of starting blocks and Chen was not in one of
those, so she chose to do a standing start, which is never recommended.  She
proceeded to false start, although it was not called.  By the time she
recovered the field was long gone.  Leading up to the break she ran great, but
being behind cost her as she was stuck behind others breaking in ahead of her,
forcing her to lose momentum.  She finished with a 58.21, but could have
easily run 57 flat or better.

Skylar Brooks '20 was scheduled to race in the next event, the 500.  For some
reason she ran it more like an 800 instead of a 400.  The net result was a 65
400 and non competitive from there as she finished in 1:23.80.

Over an hour later, Chen was back in the 200, along with Okonkwo and Michelle
Menkiti '20.  Again without the use of blocks, all but Menkiti did a three
point start.  Okonkwo ran what appeared to be an easy 25.74.  Chen cruised to
a 25.92 and Menkiti ran a 26.27.  All three were indoor bests.

MIT had five runners in the Mile.  In the third fastest section Tech had
Maryann Gong '17, Marissa McPhillips '20 and Katie Bacher '20.  The pace was
fast from the start with the leaders going out in 71 at the 400.  Bacher was
up towards the front at 72 while Gong and McPhillips were back at 73.  The
pace was not slowing down going into the half-way mark.  Bacher split 2:25 and
Gong and McPhillips 2:26. Just as they were coming into the 800 Gong moved
towards the front.  The third quarter had Gong at 3:37 for a 72 quarter, but
Bacher and McPhillips were beginning to feel the effects of the quick pace,
falling back to 3:41 and 3:42 respectively.  The final 400 was one of
survival.  Gong held on well with a 73 to finish in 4:50.52, getting passed at
the finish by alum, Louise van den Heuvel '14.  McPhillips ran a 76 for a
4:58.84 PR and Bacher closed in 79 for a 5:00.95.  A few sections later Jenna
Melanson '20 ran a 5:15.08 as she faded badly with an 84 final 400 after a
solid 2:33 first 800.  Last up was Clemmie Mitchell '18.  Mitchell had her
best race ever with a 5:04.91 performance.  Starting in the back with a
conservative 77, she methodically moved up in the pack with another 77.  With
over 600 meters remaining Mitchell took the lead and began pulling away as she
ran a 76 and then opened up in the final quarter with a 74 to win going away.

The men were competing on day two and MIT opened up with the 800.  Nathan
Munet '19 was the sole runner for MIT as he was hoping to improve his time of
1:54.60. He was placed in lane six, which meant he did not know how fast
others were going out.  When he got around to the break it was clear he was
behind.  He had to slow down further as he could not easily slide in to the
pack.  Working his way from the back Munet spent a lot of time in lane two as
he split 56.7.  His third 200 was slower, but still solid at 1:25.7.  He
tightened up in the final 200 as the leaders pulled away.  He finished
reasonably well in 1:55.64.

Tom Frejowski '19 ran an indoor PR in the 400, coming through the 200 in 24.0
en route to a 50.33.  Danny Newman '17 ran 50.79.

Tyndale Hannan '20 ran the 500 for the first time.  He did an awkward standing
start as he did not feel comfortable with his three point start, putting
himself at a disadvantage.  He ran the first 200 in the back of the pack, but
competed well from that point on, coming through the 400 in 51.5.  He passed
two people in the final 100 to run 1:04.81, the third fastest in MIT history.

In the 200, Tre Albritten '18 took advantage of lane six and blasted a 21.48,
the fastest time in all of Division III, breaking his own MIT record of 21.78.
Newman and Frejowski came back from the 400, running 22.74 and 23.09
respectively, both season bests.

In the field events, only Alec Reduker '20 and Billy Ruschel '18 competed at
BU. Reduker cleared 6-6 3/4 and Ruschel fouled out as both were getting
accustomed to the softer surfaces at BU.

Simon Alford '20 competed well in the 1000, although running the first 200 too
fast (29.3).  He paid the price for that 200, but held on nicely, running
splits of 59.2 and 2:00.4 as he went backwards in the field.  His final time
of 2:32.87 is the second fastest on the team this year.

In the Mile Run, Aidan Gilson '19 ran a controlled but solid race.  He started
out towards the back of the pack, but still came through the first quarter in
61.7.  The pack slowed as he moved up, splitting 2:06 and 3:12.  Gilson kicked
well, but not with the same zeal he had last year, almost as if he has not
used it in so long that he forgot what it was like.  Nevertheless his 4:15.22
was by far his best race of the season.  Next up was distance runner, Josh
Derrick '20.  Derrick, in his first Mile of the year, ran with a lot of heart
and desire, but made a couple dozen unnecessary moves throughout the race,
wasting a lot of energy.  Nevertheless, he fought through splits of 63, 2:07
and 3:14 before taking the lead.  However, his previous wasted moves bit him
as he lost the lead in the final 100.  His 4:17.96 was still a personal best
and provided hopes of better things to come.

The 4x400 Relay was the final event for the Engineers.  They were hoping to
get a time fast enough to move them into the fast section of next week's New
England Division III Championship.  Frejowski led off, but just did not have
it from the start.  His 52.5 split but the team far from their intended mark.
Albritten moved up to the 400, performing well as he went out hard in 22.9 to
close the gap substantially, finishing in 49.3.  Hannan ran an excellent leg,
splitting 49.1 to get MIT out of last place.  Newman ran anchor, but was
unable to make up ground in the second 200, closing in 50.7 for a season best
3:21.71.

Back at MIT some impressive performances were happening as well.  For the
women, the best performance was supplied by Gabriella Zak '20 in the 600.  The
hurdler/pentathlete took the 600 out in a unrealistic 29.0, but held on to run
1:39.34 without competition for a new MIT freshman record.

Quite a few personal bests were established by the women.  Ariela Slutsky '18
threw a PR 40-1 in the Shot Put.  Folusho Jebutu '20 had personal bests in
both throwing events; 41-10 1/4 in the Weight Throw and 34-5 1/4 in the Shot
Put.

In the Pole Vault, Kaitlyn Sparks '20 and Kari Stromhaug '19 both cleared
season bests 11-8 1/2 and Madeleine Waller '17 had a season best of 10-2 3/4.

On the men's side, Chris Washington '20 had a huge personal best of 6-7 3/4 in
his first competition after suffering through a bout of Mono.  Also in the
High Jump, Sope Eweje '19 cleared a PR 5-10.  Luke Gray '18 did his first
heptathlon of the year to qualify for next weekend's championship, scoring
4036 points.  Along the way, the junior cleared a PR 13-3 1/2 in the Pole
Vault.  Jason Villanueva '19 jumped a season best 43-8 1/2 in the Triple Jump.
Scott Cameron '19 vaulted a season best 15-0.

In the DMR the distance runners showed some speed.  Matt Deyo 'G led off with
a 3:08.5. Ken Acquah '20 ran a 54.4 400 leg.  Brian Bates '20 started out with
a 28.3 first 200 and finished with a 2:02.6 leg.  Dennis Maloney '19 was a bit
too excited, leading off with a 58.9, but settled in to run an impressive
4:15.1 to bring the team home in 10:20.75.

Next week, both the men and women attempt to defend their New England Division
III titles.  The men, competing at Tufts, are going for their fifth
consecutive title while the women will be trying for their third in a row at
home.



RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



