


  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Varsity Overpowers Alumni in Annual MIT Alumni/ae Meet

1/9/2010

Six days after returning from the holiday break, MIT showed the "Has-Beens"
they had done their work over the three week break. The Varsity had too many
bodies and a little too much quality for the Alumni. The Varsity men won the
meet 77 to 45 and the women won 78-40.

While there were no national qualifying marks for the men, there were 22 New
England Division III qualifying marks. For the women, there was one NCAA
Division III provisional mark and 26 New England Division III qualifying
marks.

Hazel Briner '11, won the pentathlon, qualifying provisionally for the NCAAs
in the only intercollegiate event of the day, and one that did not score in
the alumni meet. Briner's 3122 easily eclipsed the provisional standard of
3000 points. Briner's best performance came in the high jump where she cleared
a personal best of 5-1. Within the pentathlon, Briner qualified individually
in the 55HH, high jump and shot put for the NE Division III Championship.
Freshmen, Holly Chamberlain and Diana Zhu also qualified for the New England
Division III pentathlon, scoring 2288 and 2217 points respectively.

With no throwers entered in the meet for the varsity, the alumnae took
advantage, placing first and second in both with non-throwers (Emily Hwang
'09, Meredith Silberstein '05, and Julia Zimmerman '09) earning the 16 points.
Likewise, the alumnae were unable to field entries in the 55HH and the 400,
allowing the varsity to earn 17 unchallenged points with Portia Jones '12, and
Amy Magnuson '10, going 1-2 in the 55HH and Jamie Simmons '12, leading Martha
Gross '12, and Kirsten Aarsvold '11 to the finish line. The remaining events
were quite competitive.

The primary women's event for pure qualifying marks was the pole vault. Six of
the varsity participants earned New England Division III qualifying marks. Led
by Briner's 10-11 1/2, who came back after the pentathlon to compete in her
favorite event, the varsity earned first and third, earned by Karin Fisher
'11. Also qualifying were Lynn Jepsen '11, Becky Stavely '12, Caroline Figgatt
'11 and Lauren Kuntz '13.

The only other victories earned by the alumnae were in the long jump by
Silberstein with a 15-10 1/4 leap and Andrea Bradshaw '09, winning the 800
with a 2:22.10.

Other Varsity victories were earned by Jones in the high jump (4-10 1/4) and
200 (26.30), Magnuson in the triple jump (33-2), Brooke Johnson '13, in the
mile (5:18.69), Tania Morimoto in the 5000 (18:10.43) and the quartet of
Margaret Leibovic '10, Simmons, Gross and Jones in the 4x200 (1:49.21).

The other alumnae competing were Karen Davie '08, Chi-Fong Wang '07, Allison
Houghton '08, Adrienne Bolger '08, Erika Erickson '09, Adeline Kuo '02, and
Elizabeth Finn '09.

Stephen Morton '10, led the way for the Varsity men, earning three victories
and qualifying for the New England Division III Championships in each event.
Morton sprinted away from teammates Rene Peters '13 (6.73) and Josh Duncavage
'13 (6.74) with a 6.62 effort in the 55 dash. In the long jump he leaped 21-7
1/2 to outdistance teammates Mattias Flander '11 (20-3 1/2), and Peters (19-1
1/2) for an MIT sweep despite all doing a short approach. Morton led another
Varsity sweep in the triple jump with a 44-11 3/4 jump to lead Flander (44-1
1/2) and Wirekoh '13 (41-8 1/2).

Similar to the women, the pole vault was the event that produced the most New
England Division III qualifiers with five surpassing the 12-9 standard. Nathan
Peterson '12, led Greg Tao '10, Justin Schmidt '10, Yida Gao '13, and Ian
Fischer '12 in qualifying despite a short approach.

The throwers were a big plus for the Varsity. While Uzoma Orji '06, won both
the weight throw (54-00 1/2) and shot put (50-08 1/4), MIT had three New
England Division III qualifiers in both events. In the weight throw Adam
Mustafa '11, CK Umachi '12, and Tony McDonald '10 all qualified, while in the
shot put, James Oleinik 'G, Mitch Kelley '11, and McDonald surpassed the
qualifying mark.

Other winners for the "Has-Beens were Nate Ball '05, in the pole vault (15-4
1/2), Craig Mielcarz '03, in the high jump (6-0), Zach Traina '05, in the 200
(23.30), Ben Schmeckpeper '05, in the 5000 (15:28.00) and Yermie Cohen '09,
earning victories in both the very strategic Mile (4:26.63) and the 800
(1:56.69). Despite winning eight of the 14 events, the alumni were not able to
stay close as they only scored five non-winning points, with Patrick Barragan
'08, earning third in the vault, Andy Ugarov '95, placing third in the high
jump and Traina placing second in the 55.

Varsity victories that were earned by someone other than Morton were DJ Ronde
'13, taking the 400 with a fine time of 51.88, Brian Djaja '13, taking the
55HH with a 8.28 and the quartet of Nick Leonard '11, Pat Marx '13, John
Granata '11, and Ronde sprinting to the 4x200 victory.

Others representing the Alumni were Kevin Scannell '91, Hung Hoang '96, Bill
Singhose '90, Dan Kwon '04, Omari Stephens '08, Dave Reshef '09, Matt Lehman
'04, Ulzie Rea '09, David Blau '06, Eric Khatchadourian '06, Peter Mulligan
'08, Matt Bieniosek '09, Joe Roy-Mayhew '08 and Terry McNatt '87.

Next Saturday, MIT plays host to Bates College and Colby College with events
beginning at 12:00 noon.

RETURN TO INDOOR  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

MIT Accomplishes Goals in Home Invitational

1/23/2010

The MIT Engineers had three particular goals in mind for their non-scoring MIT
Coed Invitational I. Those goals were to rest those athletes who needed either
a weekend off from racing or a lighter load for this meet, try some people out
in different events to provide more options come New England Division III
championship time, and to focus on one event and get a solid championship
qualifying performance for those athletes who needed it.

Most of Tech's distance squad got their run in early and helped at the meet,
giving themselves a weekend where they did not have to race so that they would
be better prepared for the final weeks of the season. They will certainly need
the rest as the upcoming weeks have the Engineers at Bowdoin for a challenging
multi-team meet and then at home against rival Williams and Coast Guard before
going to Boston University for the opportunity to run some very fast times at
the Valentine's Invitational with the championships starting the following
weekend.

Since there was no scoring, there was not the same intensity to the meet,
which seemed to affect the desire for some of the engineers. However, most
took advantage of the opportunity and competed very well. Instead of racing
for points and the victories, many of the competing Engineers were instructed
to try and hit certain splits. In a few of these cases the athletes went out
too fast and paid the price.

Jacqui Wentz '10, and Brooke Johnson '13, gave the best performance of day.
Both were entered in the 1000 meter run. Johnson was supposed to run 36 second
200 splits for a 3:00 overall time and Wentz was supposed to help out at the
end of the race and get the victory if possible. Johnson instead went out in
34s for the first two 200s. While she paid the price, she showed just how
talented she is as she still ran 3:00.77, just missing the freshman record by
.09. Wentz did her job, taking the lead after the 400 and pulling Johnson
along while finishing in 2:57.68 to set a new MIT record in the event and
looked very comfortable doing so.

The race that was the most exciting to watch was the leadoff leg of the 4x800.
Richard Prevost '11, fresh off of a 4:25.10 mile effort, battled the leadoff
runner for UMass Lowell for the entire race, finally taking the lead with 100
meters to go and holding on for a 1:56.5, a very impressive split for the
steeplechaser.

Hazel Briner '11, was the only MIT athlete on the day to gain an NCAA
qualifying mark. Briner improved her pole vault mark to 11-7 3/4 in winning
the event. An easy day for Briner is a season worth of competition for some.
All she did on this relaxing day was run the 55HH in 9.16, long jump 15-2 3/4
and run a 62.6 leadoff leg for the 4x400.

Stephen Morton '10, also had a very light day but he nevertheless put in a
22-8 winning long jump. Brian Djaja '13, continued to set a new PR with each
hurdle race, this time winning in 7.98 as he dipped below the eight second
mark for the first time.

For the MIT men, the best events were the 600, 1000 and the two throwing
events; the 35lb. weight throw and the shot put. In the 600, David Way '13,
and John Granata '11, gave chase but were not able to catch Peter Najem, an
unattached runner who won in 1:21.97, but their respective times of 1:24.22
and 1:25.62 were quite impressive. Kyle Hannon '13, showed a little of what he
is capable of as he also fell victim to Najem, who won the 1000 in 2:31.31.
Hannon finished in 2:34.75, just ahead of a fast closing Gil O'Neil '13,
(2:35.76) and Bill Phipps '10, (2:37.65). Tony McDonald '10, broke the 50'
barrier for the first time in the weight throw, releasing a 50-10 bomb.
Teammate CK Umachi '12, also had a personal best with a throw of 49-6 1/2. In
the shot put, James Oleinik 'G, showed he is coming into form after recovering
from a year off due to shoulder surgery, with his 48-0 put.

Moving to different events, a couple of the women found success. Portia Jones
'12, sprinted in the 55 meter dash, running 7.63 for the first time running
the event. Martha Gross '12, raced the 200 in 27.69 after winning the 400 in
62.15. Kirsten Aarsvold had a nice personal best in the 400 with a 63.37
clocking.

Next Saturday, MIT competes in their first away meet as they travel to Bowdoin
College. The men will compete against Bowdoin, Colby, Springfield and Tufts,
while the women will go up against Bowdoin, Colby, Mt. Holyoke and Tufts. MIT
men have won this meet every year since 2005, although each meet has been a
difficult battle and with Bowdoin, Tufts and Springfield all showing very
strong teams the outcome will likely depend on which team brings it on that
day. The women lost to a very deep Bowdoin team last year. The addition of a
strong Tufts team will certainly make the meet even more challenging as both
Bowdoin and Tufts have a lot of depth and top talent.

RETURN TO INDOOR  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Briner and Umachi Lead Top Marks at Coed Invite II

2/13/2010

Hazel Briner '11, took her refreshed legs and put them to good use at MIT's
Coed Invite II. In addition to the 59 second 4x400 leg she ran at Boston
University on Friday, she had two other personal bests; 12-0 1/2 in the pole
vault and 15-10 1/2 in the long jump.

Other very good improvements for the women were had by Margaret Leibovic '10,
in the 55 dash with a 7.73 season best, Alex Westbrook '13, with a 5:32.15
mile run and Emily Kuo '13, with a 2:28.93 in the 800.

CK Umachi '12, threw a huge PR of 53-8 1/2 in the 35 lb. weight throw to win
the event for the men. Also in the weight throw, Adam Mustafa '11, threw a
personal best of 50-9 1/2 to give MIT four throwers over 50' for the year.

In the pole vault, Nate Peterson '12, cleared 14-8 3/4 for an indoor best. Ken
Cooper '13, threw a personal best in the shot put with a 43-3 3/4 performance.

Other winning efforts for MIT were earned by James Oleinik 'G, in the shot put
with a throw of 50-1 3/4, Rene Peters '13, in the 55 dash in 6.68 and Eric
Boyer '13, in the 55HH in 8.05.

Many of MIT's track and field athletes will be making the trip to Maine next
weekend to compete in the New England Division III Championship. The men are
hosted by Bates College while the women's championship is being hosted by the
University of Southern Maine.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**MIT TUNES UP FOR NATIONALS AT ECAC DIVISION III CHAMPIONSHIP**

March 6, 2010

The ECAC Division III Championship, hosted by Smith College in Northampton,
MA, is pretty much a last chance qualifier as this is the final weekend for
NCAA qualifying and most teams are not interested in how many points they can
score when all the teams are not going for it. MIT qualified about 30 men and
20 women for the championship, but elected to only take those individuals
either already qualified for nationals or right on the cusp of doing so. Those
qualified, but not competing are getting ready for the already short outdoor
season.

The pole vaulters took advantage of the opportunity, improving the qualifying
marks for two vaulters. Hazel Briner '11, cleared 12-3 1/2 for a new personal
best to earn second place. Although she did not clear a PR, Karin Fisher '11,
vaulted well, placing third with 11-11 3/4. For the men, Greg Tao '10, cleared
a new personal best of 16-01 3/4 to earn second place. All three vaulters
should make the NCAA Championship field being announced on Monday.

In the 55HH, Portia Jones '12, qualified for the finals by running 8.38 on
Friday. In the finals, she tweaked her glute in her warmup as she tripped on
one of the hurdles, and placed fourth in 8.40.

Martha Gross '12, ran the 400, trying to qualify for nationals. She ran a flat
track personal best of 59.10 to place third. She lost some momentum on the
third turn when the pace slowed and she did not react fast enough by moving
into lane two, but instead had to brake for a stride before moving out.

Stephen Morton '10, competed in the triple jump and long jump, but was only
going to jump in the trials so that his legs stayed fresh for next week. In
the triple he jumped 46-4 1/4 to place third. In the long jump, Morton had two
big fouls, only getting his third jump in, well behind the board, for 22-0
1/2.

Brooke Johnson '13, and Jamie Simmons '12, raced in the 800, Johnson to get in
something a little shorter than the mile for a last minute tune-up and Simmons
to get more familiar with the race so she is that much better prepared for the
distance medley relay at nationals. Both were in the slow section due to the
fact neither has run the 800 more than once, entering times of 2:21 and 2:22.
Johnson took the pace out, as prescribed, in 33 high. Simmons did not take
over right away, letting the pace slip to 68 for the 400. Johnson, realizing
that Simmons was not going to push the pace, took control with 350 to go,
pulling away from the field and finishing, looking very strong in 2:18.51, a
new MIT freshman record and sixth place overall out of the three sections.
Simmons closed well, finishing in 2:18.87 to finish in eighth overall.

Kyle Hannon '13, raced the mile at the IC4A Championship being held at Boston
University. The IC4As are the oldest track and field conference in the
country, a men's only conference made up of division I, II and III teams from
the entire east, reaching all the way to Indiana. Hoping to improve on his
4:12.18 and thus move up on the national rankings list, Hannon managed a
4:11.67 for yet another MIT freshman record.

Next week, MIT leaves for the NCAA Division III Championship being held at
DePauw University in Greencastle, Indiana. The women are ranked second and the
men 11th.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

MIT CLAIMS TRI-MEET VICTORY OVER BATES, COLBY

1/16/2010

Led by an incredible number of personal bests and New England Division III
Championship qualifying marks, MIT's men's and women's teams both claimed
victories over Bates and Colby yesterday in Cambridge. The men pulled away
early and never looked back, winning with a score of 223.5 to 125.5 for Bates
and 29 for Colby. The women, having plenty of quality, but not much in the
depth department, did not pull ahead until the end of the meet, finishing with
two relay victories and claiming the first four places in the pole vault to
win with 160 points to 127 for Bates and 97 for Colby.

Entering the meet, MIT's women's squad was missing All America hurdler, and
jumper, Amy Magnuson '10, due to a tender hamstring, as well as a couple
others who would undoubtedly score much needed points. The already small
women's team was going up against a very deep Bates team with twice the number
of athletes. They would be dependent on first and second places whenever
possible if they were going to win. With six scoring places (7-5-4-3-2-1) for
individual events and three scoring places (7-5-4) for the relays, depth could
easily overcome quality, so MIT needed to score every point they possibly
could.

As it turned out, Tech won 10 of the 12 running events and earned second in
five of the 10 individual running events. In the field events, MIT scored very
few points in the horizontal jumps and throws, but fortunately, the vertical
jumps (pole vault, high jump) went well as MIT scored 28 of a possible 44
points.

While Bates pulled ahead with 28 points in the shot put and long jump, MIT
started well in the 55HH and the mile run. Portia Jones '12, earned first in
the high hurdles with an NCAA provisional performance of 8.43. She was backed
by Hazel Briner '11, who placed second in 8.95. Jacqui Wentz '10, made her
debut this year with a victory in the mile in 5:15.61 and was supported by
Tania Morimoto '12, and Anna Holt-Gosselin '11 in third and fifth
respectively.

Again, MIT suffered a significant disadvantage in the weight throw and triple
jump as Bates outscored MIT 30-6. Making up the points on the track was not
immediate as Bates also out sprinted MIT in the 55 dash with 13 points to five
for MIT, earned by Margaret Leibovic '10. Jones and Martha Gross '12, earned
twelve of the points by going 1-2 in the 400 in 61.29 and 61.63 respectively.
Immediately afterwards Jamie Simmons '12, led Briner and Aarsvold to a 1-4-5
finish in the 600. Simmons's time of 1:38.67 is the second fastest in MIT
history.

Wentz was back on the track in the 800, as she led Marie Burkland '13, to
another MIT 1-2 finish. MIT was down by 20 points going into the high jump and
the 200. After Briner led Jones and Diana Zhu to a 3-4-5 finish in the high
jump and Jones won the 200, MIT was down by 12.

Brooke Johnson '13, ran her first 3000 and did so in spectacular fashion,
winning in 10:18.92. Sarah Sprague '13, earned fourth to bring MIT within
four. Tech's 14 points in the 5000, earned by Alina Gatowski's '11 win and
third and fourth by Maggie Lloyd '12, and Lauren Allen '13, finally put them
ahead 127-118.

Winning both the 4x400 in 4:14. 79 and the 4x800 in 9:51.30 put MIT up by 15
with only the pole vault to be determined. Fortunately, Briner won the event
with an NCAA provisional mark of 11-6 1/2. She was supported by Karin Fisher
'11, (11-1), Lynn Jepsen '11 (10-0) and Lauren Kuntz '13, (9-6 1/4).

The men's meet was never in any real doubt, as MIT boasted their deepest team
ever and there is no lack of quality either. A few key athletes were missing
with minor injuries and illness, including All America pole vaulter, Greg Tao
'10. However, the losses were not enough to have a significant impact on the
outcome of the meet.

Tech won all but one running event, scoring at least three of the six places
in every individual running event, as well as winning the long and triple
jumps. Perhaps the two most dominating events for MIT were ones in which they
have not had much depth over the years. The 55HH was the first of the pleasant
surprises as every MIT hurdler set a personal best. Brian Djaja '13, led the
way with a 8.01. He was followed by Nick Leonard '11, in 8.17, Andrew
Musacchio '11, in 8.20 and Josh Duncavage '13, in 8.50. Shortly afterwards,
Stephen Morton '10, won the first of his four events, the 55 dash and led MIT
to a 1-2-3-5-6 finish for their most dominating event. Morton's 6.64 was
followed by Rene Peters '13, in 6.67, Duncavage in 6.73, Chazz Sims '13, in
6.84 and Nathan Peterson '12, in 6.86.

Morton also won the 200 in a modest 23.02, the long jump in 22-2 1/2 and the
triple jump in an NCAA provisional qualifying mark of 47-8. Morton was
supported in the 200 by Duncavage in second and Kahlil Dozier '12, in fourth.
In the jumps Mattias Flander '11, earned second place in both the long jump
and triple jump.

DJ Ronde '13, led a 1-2 MIT finish in the 400 as he and Leonard ran 52.24 and
52.79. John Granata '11, won the 600 in 1:25.33, leading a 1-3-4-6 domination.
Gil O'Neil '13, surprised many with a 1:58.23 victory as fellow freshmen,
David Way and Logan Trimble earned third and fourth.

The only running event the Engineers lost, the 1000, was one in which they
still dominated by placing 2-3-4-5, led by Stephen Serene's 2:35.99. Kyle
Hannon '13, won the mile in a 4:26.13, followed closely by Hemu Arumugam in
4:28.44. In the 3000, Paul Welle '11, led Richard Prevost '11, to a 1-2 finish
in 8:52.47 to 8:54.84. Gihan Amarasiriwardena '11, took the 5000 from start to
finish in 15:38.83.

While Tech did not win the throwing events, the big guys did throw far. In the
shot put, James Oleinik 'G, led Mitch Kelley '11, and Tony McDonald '10, with
throws of 46-2, 46-1 1/2 and 45-8 1/2. In the 35lb. weight throw, McDonald
threw 49-3 to 48-5 1/4 for Adam Mustafa '11 and 47-6 1/2 for Ken Cooper '13.
The depth in the event was significant as Kelley's 47-5 3/4 did not place.

Next week, MIT is again at home for their own invitational, which will give
the Engineers the chance to focus on taking a mental break by doing different
events or taking a weekend off from competing.

RETURN TO INDOOR  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Women Establish Five New NCAA Qualifying Marks

Men Finish Regular Season Undefeated

2/6/2010

When you pit the top two teams in New England Division III against each other
two weeks before the New England Division III Championship, there is an
internal battle the coaches generally go through in trying to decide whether
to go to the wall to win the regular season meet while risking pushing
athletes to the point that they may not be at their best two weeks later, or
hold back and risk losing the regular season meet. Fortunately or
unfortunately, neither the men's nor women's meet projected to be a close
meet, relieving the coaches of that additional headache.

Similar to 2009, the MIT women have plenty of top level quality, but just do
not have the depth to go up against favorably with a very deeply talented team
like Williams in a meet with just a couple teams and scoring six scoring
places (7-5-4-3-2-1). The larger the meet, the better MIT will tend to do
against their peers. For example, after losing this meet last year, MIT turned
around and defeated Williams in the championship.

On the reverse side, the men have a very large team and a lot of young top
level talent, which last year proved to be too much for the Williams squad. Of
course, the Williams men then flipped those results and soundly defeated the
Engineers in the championship two weeks later.

The 2010 tri meet was a mirror image of 2009. The MIT men won the meet going
away, scoring 192.5 to 136.5 for Williams. Coast Guard finished with 47
points. On the women's side, the lop sided match was made worse by some
unfortunate injuries and illnesses that appeared in the past two days, leaving
the MIT team quite depleted. Williams took advantage, scoring 208 to 132 for
MIT and 15 for Coast Guard.

The star of the men's meet was undoubtedly Stephen Morton '10, who won four
events, the long jump (22-5 1/4), triple jump (46-3 1/2), 55 dash (6.60) and
200 meter dash (22.49), running season bests in both sprints. For the women,
Portia Jones '12, was the star, winning two events, the 55HH (8.26) and 200
(25.67), and placing second in two events, the high jump (5'1) and 400
(57.71). Two of those events, the 55HH and 400, were national qualifying
performances and the 200 was a flat track personal best. Her personal battle
with Hillary Higgs of Williams brought out the best in both runners. Both
sophomores, they squared off in the 400 first. Higgs earned the break and held
Jones off around the final turn, although she veered out forcing Jones wide,
and held the lead all the way to the line to set a facility record of 57.57.
In the 200, Jones won the battle in the home stretch, edging out Higgs.

The best event for the Engineers in both meets was the pole vault. For the
women, MIT swept all six scoring places, with Karin Fisher '11, improving her
NCAA qualifying mark to 11-10, leading the way. Season and personal bests led
the way as Hazel Briner '11 jumped 11-1, Lauren Kuntz '13, cleared 10-7, Becky
Stavely '13, vaulted 10-1 1/4, Lynn Jepsen '11, made 10-1 1/4 and Caroline
Figgatt '11, successfully cleared 9-1 1/2. For the men, who placed 1-2-3-5-6,
Greg Tao '10, led the way with his 14-8 3/4 victory. Nathan Peterson '12,
cleared 14-2 3/4 for second, Cyrus Vafadari '12, claimed third, also at 14-2
3/4, Davey Hunt '12, found his magic and vaulted 13-9 and Justin Schmidt '10,
closed out the scoring with his 13-3 vault.

The men also dominated the throws, as James Oleinik 'G, showed he is
completely back from shoulder surgery as he threw 50-3 1/2 in the shot put, an
indoor best to lead a 1-2-4 finish. Tony McDonald '10, threw a personal best
of 51-4 1/2 in the weight throw to lead MIT to a 1-3-5 event victory. Other
victories on the men's side were all earned on the track and there were quite
a few. Kyle Hannon '13, led from start to finish, running 4:18.20 solo. Eric
Boyer '13, fought off a poor start in the trials and came back to win the 55HH
in a personal best of 8.04. MIT took both relays, winning the 4x400 in 3:26.43
with the quartet of Pat Marx '13, DJ Ronde '13, David Way '13, and John
Granata '11. The 4x800 won in 8:06.55 with Dawit Zewdie '13, Logan Trimble
'13, Andrew Erickson '12, and Gil O'Neil.

The women dominated the victories in the running events despite holding quite
a few people out of the meet. Jacqui Wentz '10, and Brooke Johnson '13, did
their weekly 1-2 mile finish, running even better NCAA qualifying performances
than the week before with times of 4:59.87 and 5:00.51 respectively. Those
times were facility and freshman records respectively.

Another of the track victories was earned by Jamie Simmons '12, in the 600,
who led wire to wire in a new personal best of 1:37.03. Johnson came back in
the 1000 and after a slow first 400, decided to take matters into her own
hands, leading the rest of the way to finish in 3:02.99. Alina Gatowski '11,
ran a casual 10:31.40 to win comfortably in the 3000, while Tania Morimoto
'12, cruised through a relatively slow 12:09 3200 before running a 5:41 final
mile to easily win the 5000 in 18:35.10.

Next week, MIT will split their squad, sending most of their oval runners to
Boston University to compete in the Valentine's Invitational while leaving
their short sprinters, hurdlers and all field events at home for the MIT Coed
Invite II. This will be the final tuneup prior to the championships where the
women will hope to defend their title and the men will hope to improve on
their second place finish in 2009.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**FANTASTIC SECOND DAY MAKES UP FOR DISAPPOINTING FIRST DAY AT NCAA
CHAMPIONSHIP**

MIT Comes Home With Nine All America Winners

March 12-13 , 2010

This weekend, MIT traveled to Greencastle, Indiana, the home of DePauw
University, the host of the 2010 NCAA Division III Indoor Track and Field
Championship. The women, ranked second in the country for the past two weeks,
were counting on seven women, all underclassmen, to perform in many events,
perhaps too many in such a short span of time if they make the finals in their
individual events. Hazel Briner '11, competing in the pentathlon, pole vault
and 4x400 relay, all on Saturday. Portia Jones '12, was entered in back to
back events, the 55HH and 400, which had trials on Friday and finals on
Saturday, with the 4x400 relay to follow. Jamie Simmons '12, had the 400
trials on Friday followed by the 800 leg of the distance medley relay and then
the 400 finals followed by the 4x400 relay on Saturday. Martha Gross '12, had
the distance medley relay on Friday followed by the 4x400 relay on Saturday.
Brooke Johnson '13, had the mile trials on Friday followed by the 1200 leg of
the distance medley relay and then the mile final on Saturday. Karin Fisher
'11 had the pole vault on Saturday and Alina Gatowski anchored the distance
medley relay on Friday. The women wanted to go for it all, determined to have
a shot at a national title.

The men, ranked seventh in the country, brought three competitors; Stephen
Morton '10, competing in the long jump on Friday and the triple jump on
Saturday. Greg Tao '10, competing in the pole vault on Friday and Kyle Hannon
'13, competing in the mile trials on Friday and hopefully the final on
Saturday.

Tao was the first competitor for MIT on Friday morning at 10:00. The opening
height was 15-1 3/4, which he cleared on his second attempt. Everyone in the
field who came in cleared that height. At 15-7 3/4, Tao cleared on his first
attempt, as did all but two others, who cleared on their second attempt. 25
minutes into the vault and they were already going to the third height, 16-1
3/4. This height took its toll on the field. The second seeded vaulter,
entered at this height and no-heighted. Four addtionals vaulters went out of
the 12 person field, but Tao was not one of them as he cleared on his third
attempt, matching his personal best, established just one week ago. Now there
were seven vaulters remaining and Tao was tied for sixth place due to his
three previous misses. Although he had two very good attempts at 16-5 3/4, he
was not able to clear. Jake Winder '10, won the event with a vault of 16-9
1/2.

Hannon started things off on the track in the mile run. Running in the second
of two heats, Hannon was the unfortunate victim of a very slow early pace and
overall slow heat as well as inexperience in racing efficiently and letting
the race develop without trying to force things. The first 400 went in a
pedestrian 68 seconds. Even at the 800 the pace was a slow 2:16. The bunched
up pack must have been a bit claustrophobic for Hannon as he continued to move
in and out trying to position himself. The third 400 saw the pace quicken to
64 with Hannon in the top three. The final 400 was in 61 for Hannon as the
leaders ran 60 with two more passing him in the final 100. Running 4:21.26, he
failed to qualify for the finals by .23.

Johnson was in the women's mile and displayed very similar inexperience as
Hannon. Her first 400 was out in 74 yet she was trying to position herself way
too early, wasting valuable energy in the process. The 800 was a solid 2:30.
The third quarter slowed a bit to 3:48, but Johnson was in fine shape going
into the final quarter. However, when the group moved she did not move with
them. Her legs not responding, she gave up a bit in the final 100, which
caused her to miss finals by .67 even though she ran 5:03.89.

At this same time, Morton was over at the long jump. The second seeded Morton
should have owned this event as the winning performance was just 23-6, with
only three jumpers exceeding 23'. However, Morton fouled his first two by the
smallest of margins and then could not stop in time on his third attempt as he
realized he was not on his mark, running through the takeoff--fouling out.

The bad kept getting worse. Jones was in the 55HH and had the worst start of
year. Even so, she rallied to finish .01 out of qualifying for the finals with
an 8.33 performance.

The bleeding finally stopped when Jones came back 20 minutes later to win her
heat of the 400 in 56.82, a flat track personal best for Jones. The time puts
Jones in the fast section final on Saturday. Simmons also ran the 400, but
struggled too much and too long in lane two trying to get around an opposing
runner after not taking her on the break. Her final time was 58.76.

The final event on Friday was the distance medley relay. An already fatigued
Johson started out well on the 1200 leg, but struggled in the final 400,
finishing in 3:43 with MIT in eighth place. Gross got the baton and ran a
vicious 26.0 first 200 en route to an excellent 58.1 split, putting MIT in
fifth place at the handoff. Despite Simmons solid 2:17.8 800 leg, a flat track
best, MIT was unable to hold the position, falling back badly to ninth place.
Gatowski, not really having raced in a month, did not seem to have missed a
step. Going out in 71 for the quarter, she made up very little ground. Even
coming throught the 800 in 2:28, she could not move up. Losing a little focus
in the third quarter, Gatowski slowed to 3:49 before rallying to finish in a
flat track best of 5:07.5. The final time of 12:07.20 did not place, but the
performance was excellent nevertheless.

Saturday morning kicked off with the women's pentathlon at 9:00 a.m. and the
pole vault at 10:00 a.m. Unfortunately for Briner, she was in both, but she
knew this two weeks before the championship and decided to do both events
anyway. She started off with the 55HH and matched her personal best with an
8.73. In the high jump portion, which was happening at the same time as her
vaulting, she cleared 5-0 1/2, 1/2 inch below her best. In the vault, she
cleared 11-4 1/4 and 11-10, but failed to clear 12-4, which would have been a
personal best. Fisher, also in the vault, looked very good, matching her
personal best of 12-4 to earn All America honors with her tie for sixth place.

Briner continued the pentathlon with a 35-1 shot put, not her best, but not
bad either. This moved her up to sixth overall going into the long jump
portion of the event. She jumped 16-2, a very nice personal best, which moved
her up to fifth place with only the 800 meter run to go. Having the best 800
in the field and knowing she could move up to third with a solid effort,
Briner started out near the front of the field of 17, splitting the 200 in
34.8. Going into the backstretch she took the lead, coming through the 400 in
71.2. Tired from the long day of competing the pole vault and the pentathlon
events, Briner nevertheless held on for a 2:23.48. Her time moved her up the
two spots to third overall with a new MIT record of 3391 points.

Jones was up in 400 final. Earning her way into the fastest of the two section
final, Jones got out well in the inside lane, taking the break and splitting
26.2 at the 200. Two of the four passed Jones on the backstretch and final
turn and the other passed her in the final few meters. Her 56.72 was her
fastest indoor flat track 400 ever. The first section all ran over 57 seconds,
giving Jones fourth place overall.

Morton was up in the triple jump and ready to deliver on his number one
ranking. In the trials, he jumped 48-6 3/4 to go into the finals behind by .02
cm. On his first jump in the finals, Morton moved up one centimeter. On his
second jump in the finals he took the lead with a jump of 48-9 1/2. With one
jumper left before Morton claimed his first national championship, that final
jumper leaped 15.02 or 49-3 1/4 to take the lead. Morton smiled, knowing he
has been in this position many times before and pulled out most of them.
Flying down the runway he put everything into the jump, landing what looked
like may the championship jump. The measurement--15.01, 49-3, not quite far
enough, but certainly good enough for second place.

The final event of the meet was the women's 4x400 relay. Seeded third, based
on their banked track time of 3:51.61, the foursome of Simmons, Gross, Briner
and Jones were in the fastest of three sections. The fastest time out of the
two previous sections was 3:54.78, an impressive time on such a tight turn
track. Simmons led off, working her way from the last of four teams to pass
off the baton in third, splitting 58.5. Gross lost ground on the handoff,
moving back to fourth as she took over the baton duties. Getting out in 26.9
to take back third place, she split 58.4 as she handed off to a very tired
Briner. Briner lost a lot of ground to the fourth place team with her 60.8
400, but did not relinquish the hold on third. Jones took the baton and
proceeded to run a fantastic 57.0, holding off fourth place team. MIT's time
of 3:54.84 was .06 behind the time from section two, giving Tech fourth place
overall.

Neither team had perfect meets and neither placed where they hoped among the
championship teams. However, both the women and men competed well and
represented MIT well. The women placed 10th overall with 18.5 points while the
men finished in 17th with 10.5 points. The women return everyone next year and
hope to improve on their 2010 finish.

RETURN TO INDOOR  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**MEN EXCEL AT NEW ENGLAND DIVISION III CHAMPIONSHIP, EARNING TEAM TITLE**

Morton Scores 34 points and Sets Two MIT Records to Lead the Way

February 20, 2010

MIT entered this year's New England Division III Indoor Track and Field
Championship, hosted by Bates College, as the number one seed with a predicted
107 points. The University of Southern Maine was seeded second with 96, Tufts
University third with 83 and Williams fourth with 72 points. MIT knew that if
they did not score more than their seeded total they would likely lose as it
was clear Williams had a lot more than 72 points in their arsenal.

With no pentathletes in the field, MIT gave up 11 points to Williams and 10 to
Tufts on day one of the championship. Beginning the second day, the trials in
the 55 dash, 55HH and 200 had to be settled prior to any of the running event
finals. MIT was not seeded to score in either the 55 or 55HH, despite having
numerous entries, due to the very fast competition. The hurdles were first and
Brian Djaja '13, ran a personal best of 7.96 to make the finals. Andrew
Musacchio '11, ran a huge personal best of 8.03 to miss the finals by .01. In
the 55 dash, both Stephen Morton '10, and Rene Peters '13, made it into the
finals with times of 6.63 and 6.65 respectively. In the 200, both Morton and
Josh Duncavage were expected to place and both made it through to the finals
with Morton having the fastest time of 22.60. At the very least, provided they
finished the finals, MIT was up four points.

The first field events were the 35 lb. weight throw and the long jump. In the
weight throw, MIT was seeded to score four points. Fortunately, the Engineers
are accustomed to making things better, not believing anyone who says it
cannot be done, as Ken Cooper '13 and CK Umachi '12, proceeded to throw 53-3
and 53-1 3/4 respectively to earn third and fourth places and Tony McDonald
'10, supported with a 51-8 1/2 personal best for eighth place, putting MIT up
eight points in the first final. Cooper's throw was not only a personal best,
but also a freshman record for MIT.

In the long jump, Morton was seeded second, but on the first attempt, he hit
the board perfectly, flying 23-9 to take over first place and set a new MIT
record, replacing MIT's oldest record on the books, held by Stanley Johnson
from 1936. Knowing Morton had a long day, the coaches shut him down in the
long jump, having him warmed up and ready in case anyone passed his mark,
which never happened. MIT was up two more points.

On the track, the first final was the mile run. Kyle Hannon '13, was seeded
fourth, but appeared to let his nerves get to him. The pack did not follow the
leader, preferring to hold back in 64 for the quarter. Hannon went with the
leader but did not continue after the 400, allowing the pack to catch him. He
never responded after that and did not place. MIT gave up five of the 10
points they had gained.

Djaja got his chance in the 55HH final and took full advantage of the
opportunity. After the third hurdle he was in third place, but then hit the
fourth hurdle, nearly fell and stumbled over the final hurdle. Somehow he
still managed to place fifth in another personal best of 7.93. Djaja's finish
made up four of the five points lost in the mile.

In the high jump, Matt Falk '12, was not expected to score, but he and his
coaches believed he could. Clearing 6-2 on his first attempt and only having
one prior miss, Falk took advantage of the day and the field, placing fourth
to put MIT up 14 points on their seeds.

The next event on the track where MIT was expected to score was the 600.
Seeded to take 10 points, the Engineers were actually hoping for more.
However, shortly into the start of the race John Granata '11, hurt his
hamstring and Pat Marx '13, learned a little about running with and trying to
get around a championship field. Marx managed a freshman record of 1:22.86 to
place fourth. So, Tech lost five more expected points and was back to nine
points up. This entire time, Tufts and Souhern Maine were not taking advantage
of opportunities but Williams College was having a great day, keeping pace
with MIT.

In the 55 dash, Morton and Peters were able to secure fifth and sixth with
times of 6.59 and 6.66 respectively, giving MIT seven more unexpected points.

In the shot put, MIT thought they could score more than their seeded 11
points, but it was not to be. James Oleinik 'G, was not able to overcome first
place, settling for his expected second place seed, throwing 49-8 1/4. Mitch
Kelley '11, was seeded sixth, but was not able to overcome his nerves and did
not make finals. However, McDonald, came through big again with a new personal
best of 46-3 1/2 to earn the sixth place given up by Kelley.

The 1000 was supposed to be a big event for MIT. Seeded to score 13, MIT once
again thought there was a possibility of more points, having three runners in
the fast section. Richard Prevost '11, quickly put himself with the leaders,
as did Bill Phipps '10, and Logan Trimble '13. After the 600 mark, coming
through in 1:31, both Phipps and Trimble fell back. Prevost took the lead and
nearly held on for the victory, just losing out by .4 of a second, but running
a personal best of 2:31.10. Phipps fought hard to hold onto sixth place,
earning MIT 11 points.

The big break for Tech came in the pole vault. Expected to score five points,
the eight qualified vaulters from MIT jumped amazingly well. Cyrus Vafadari
'12, cleared a personal best of 14-11 to claim seventh place in the talented
field. Nathan Peterson '12, also cleared his personal best, qualifying
provisionally for nationals with a vault of 15-3 to tie for third. Greg Tao
'10, out much of the season with a hip flexor injury, shook off some of the
rust and cleared 15-9 1/4 to win the event, giving MIT 17.5 points.

The 200 did not go as well for MIT as seeded, but nevertheless quite well.
Morton had to run his best, a 22.38 to win the event while Duncavage failed to
run the first turn, placing eighth, missing sixth by .1 seconds.

The 3000 and 5000 both went better than expected for Tech. Hemu Arumugam '10,
held onto a quick pace to earn fourth in 8:44.03 to gain one point on the
seeds in the 3K. In the 5K, Paul Welle '11, ran a personal best of 15:22.85 to
place fourth and Dan Harper '12, sprinted a 32 second final 200 in the slow
section to earn a surprising seventh place in 15:34.57.

Just before the relays were getting underway, the triple jump was wrapping up.
With Granata being out with his hamstring and David Way '13, also missing the
meet with a hamstring strain, the fourth seeded 4x400 was hurting quite a bit.
MIT was up on Williams by 18.5 points and was even up in the triple jump at
the time the distance medley relay was starting. The decision was made to
boost up the DMR by moving Marx from the decimated 4x400 to run the 400 leg
and scratch the 4x400, thinking the 4x800 had a reasonable chance of winning
and holding off Williams despite their performance in the relays.

Fortunately, the DMR of Prevost (1200), Marx (400), Dawit Zewdie '13 (800) and
Hannon (1600), ran great splits of 3:10, 51.7, 1:57.9 and 4:21.2 to finish
first in 10:21.06. Morton, being the clutch performer that he is, moved from
second place (to Tomas Kearney '12, from Williams) to first with a monster
last attempt of 49-4 1/4 to smash his own MIT record and post the top jump in
the country for division III this year. Mattias Flander '11, supported
Morton's effort well, jumping 44-6 3/4 for sixth place.

The last event in the meet was the 4x800. MIT had many runners to choose from,
but going with Trimble, Stephen Serene '12, Gil O'Neil '13 and Phipps.
Trimble, unaccustomed to leading off, ran 2:00.6 to keep MIT up with the
leaders. Serene ran an inspired 1:58.3 to put MIT in second. O'Neil ran a
solid 1:59.1 to keep MIT in second, depending on Phipps to bring MIT home. On
normal occasions, Phipps would have made up the difference, but he has had
breathing problems of late and after a strong effort through 400 meters he was
unable to hold on. MIT still finished in fifth to provide the total of 132.5
to 109 for Williams, while Tufts finished third with 65 points.

This marked the 11th New England Division III Indoor title since the inception
of the championship in 1980. MIT has only placed lower than fourth place twice
in the 31 years of the conference, which has over 40 teams.

Next week, MIT will be at the NEICAAA Championship at Boston University where
they will go up against all New England colleges; division I, II and III.
Morton will rest from his busy weekend, while others will begin to prepare for
outdoor track. Some will try to improve their marks or qualify for nationals.

RETURN TO INDOORS  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**RECORDS: VARSITY, FRESHMAN AND PERSONAL FALL AT NEICAAA CHAMPIONSHIP**

February 27, 2010

Despite not competing many individuals due to needed rest and recovery or the
decision to get ready for the outdoor season, MIT's indoor track and field
teams performed tremendously, setting two varsity records, two freshman
records and fourteen personal or season bests with just 26 total competitors
at this weekends NEICAAA (New England Intercollegiate Amateur Athletic
Association) Championship.

The women finished seventh with 31 points in this prestigious meet where teams
from all divisions (I, II and III) compete against each other. Karin Fisher
'11, led the way, improving her pole vault to 12-4 to win the event and move
her to number nine on the NCAA Division III list and number two on the MIT
all-time list. Suppporting Fisher was Hazel Briner '11, who cleared 11-11 3/4
to finish fourth.

Portia Jones '12, led the 400 trio; Jamie Simmons '12, and Martha Gross, as
all three made the finals. Jones, owning the fastest time in the country for
Division III, finished third with a 56.13 clocking. Simmons, finished fifth
after running 56.70 in the trials for the fourth fastest time in the country.
Gross ran a personal best of 58.28 in the finals even though she did not
place.

At the end of the day, Briner joined Jones, Simmons and Gross to place third
in the 4x400 relay in 3:51.61, the second fastest time in the country and a
new MIT record. After taking too long of a warmup and looking a little
fatigued from doing so, Simmons led off in 57.2. A poor handoff to an
impatient Gross produced a 58.3 split. Briner, probably still feeling the
effects of her pentathlon and fever from last weekend, ran 59.9. Jones brought
the baton home in 56.0 but had more left in the tank as she appeared to shut
down with 100 to go.

The men finished 21st with 12 points, leaving Stephen Morton '10, out of the
jumps, giving his legs a break after his four events last weekend.

Leading the way was the surprising 4x800 relay, made up entirely of freshmen,
who put together an MIT freshman record breaking performance to place fourth
in 7:44.24. Leading the way in his third race of the weekend was Pat Marx '13,
who seemed tentative and unsure of his ability. However, being the competitor
that he is, Marx ran 29s for every 200, finishing in 1:57.7 to put MIT in
fourth place in the second fastest section of teams. Dawit Zewdie '13, threw
caution to the wind and simply raced, splitting 26.2, 54.5, 1:24.9 and 1:54.1
to put MIT in third place and closed down on the first two teams. Logan
Trimble '13, did not let the excellent leg by Zewdie go to waste, taking it
out in 56.0 and finishing in 1:55.6 to keep MIT in third place. Hannon,
running his second race of the day ran a very strong leg, splitting 1:56.8 to
give MIT third in their section. Only one team in the fast section ran faster
than MIT, giving the Engineers the fourth place. All four legs ran personal
bests.

Earlier in the day, Marx was in the finals of the 500, running in the slower
of the two section final after qualifying the day before. Going out in 49.9 at
the 400 and running a perfect strategic race, he finished second in his
section by .06 seconds and sixth overall in a new freshman record of 1:04.32,
the number two performance all-time for MIT.

Also earlier, Hannon raced in the mile where he was hoping to qualify for
nationals. The provisional qualifying mark on a banked track is 4:15.00 and
the automatic standard is 4:10.00. Hannon was in the second of three sections,
which turned out to be just right. After a very good start, Hannon settled in
the pack, coming through splits of 62 and 2:05. The pace then slowed and of
course a lot of jostling and contact took place. Hannon kept speeding up and
slowing down as he tried to navigate through the pack, which slowed to 3:11 at
the three quarter mark. Finally breaking free, Hannon finished with a 61 final
quarter to complete the mile in 4:12.18 to set the MIT freshman record and
meet the NCAA provisional standard. Placing third in his section, Hannon
placed seventh overall. His time was also a new personal best.

On Friday, Nathan Peterson '12, matched his personal best of 15-3 as he placed
seventh in the pole vault. Greg Tao '10, also cleared 15-3 but did not place
due to too many misses.

Also on Friday, Stephen Morton '10, set yet another MIT record with his 21.92
200. Also running a personal best was Josh Duncavage '13, running 22.59.

In the 55HH, despite a poor start, Eric Boyer '13, ran a personal best of
8.02.

Dan Harper '12, running with a cold, ran an inspiring season best of 15:18.50
in the 5000 meters, keeping all 400 splits between 72-75 seconds for a very
well run race.

Tony McDonald '10, threw a personal best in his final collegiate 35 lb. weight
throw ever, tossing the weight 52-1 3/4. McDonald really put the exclamation
point on his final two weeks of indoor with three personal bests.

Next weekend, MIT will send those who have qualified for the NCAA
Championships to the ECAC and IC4A Championships with hope to improve their
marks.

RETURN TO INDOOR  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**MIT REMAINS UNDEFEATED**

**Men and Women Win Bowdoin College Invitational**

1/30/2010

The MIT men's and women's track and field teams took the trip north to
Brunswick, Maine to visit Bowdoin College for the Bowdoin Invitational,
involving men's and women's teams from Colby, Tufts and of course MIT and host
Bowdoin. In addition, the men's team from Springfield College joined the
action.

MIT's men's team has won this meet each of the past five years, and based on
the pre-meet seeds the sixth year would be no different. The women lost their
meet last year (finishing second to Bowdoin) despite winning the New England
Division III championship three weeks later. The reason for last year's loss
and this year's concern was the lack of depth against teams with much larger
numbers. The Tech women have more team members this year, but still not enough
to be called a deep team.

The Engineers, competing away from their home track for the first time this
year, took advantage of the fast track and excellent competition to post five
new NCAA Division III Championship provisional marks, narrowly missing three
others en route to resounding victories. The men scored 264 points to
Springfield's 108, Bowdoin's 92, Tufts' 74 and Colby's 14. The women, pulling
their 4x800 team as well as a couple national level performers who were
feeling injuries coming on, prevailed by a score of 210.5 to Bowdoin's 159,
Tufts' 112.5, and Colby's 90.

For the women, Alina Gatowski '11, got things rolling for MIT in the 5000 by
running uncontested 85-86 second quarters until closing with a 2:02 final 600
to win going away in 17:42.85, missing an NCAA provisional mark by .85
seconds. Also running well was Maggie Lloyd '12, missing a personal best by
less than a second with a 18:37.88. Sarah Sprague '13, and Lauren Allen '13,
also ran personal bests with times of 19:00.52 and 19:04.74 to place fifth and
sixth respectively, earning three points in the 10-8-6-4-2-1 scoring format.

As as come to be expected, MIT women won nine of the 12 running events they
entered. However, as as also come to be expected they did not fair well in the
field events, particularly the horizontal jumps and throws, winning only the
vertical events, the pole vault and high jump. In the running events, the mile
was the next event after the 5K, and Jacqui Wentz '10, Brooke Johnson '13 and
Missy Shower '13, dominated with a 1-2-3 finish. Wentz and Johnson
provisionally qualified for nationals with times of 5:02.34 and 5:04.07
respectively.

Next up was the 55HH, where despite All American, Amy Magnuson '10, not
competing, MIT held their own. Portia Jones '12, won with a 8.46. She was
supported by a third place finish from the very versatile Hazel Briner '11, in
9.00.

Jones, the eighth place finisher at last year's nationals, turned right around
to run the 400 where teammate Jamie Simmons '12, had won the first section in
a very fast 59.34. Jones did not get the break coming out of the second turn
and was unable to pass Elsa Millett from Bowdoin. However, Simmons' time held
up to win the event with Jones claiming third in 59.69. The night before at
Boston University's Terrier Classis, Jones had run 58.01 in the 400 and
Simmons ran 2:22.26 in her first ever 800.

The 600 was up next and Martha Gross '12, moved up in distance to show her
skills beyond the 400, winning in 1:39.66 with Kirsten Aarsvold '11, placing
fourth in 1:41.83.

In the 800, Wentz and Johnson were back on the track and the results was the
same as in the mile, a 1-2 finish. Wentz ran 34 for each of the four 200s to
win in 2:16.86, narrowly missing qualifying for the NCAA Championships.
Johnson ran 2:21.78 for second.

Jones came back in the 200, this time defeating Millett, 26.35 to 26.45,
despite running out of lane two. Simmons, racing out of the disadvantageous
lane one, placed fifth in 27.35.

In the 3000, Tania Morimoto '12, ran consistent 41 second 200 splits to place
first in a fine time of 10:23.89.

The final running event victory came from the 4x400 relay, which ran 4:06.90
with excellent legs from Simmons (59.9), Gross (62.0), Aarsvold (63.2) and
Briner (61.5).

In the field events, Jones jumped to a school record tying mark of 5-1 3/4 for
first place. She was supported by Briner in third and Diana Zhu '13, in fifth.
Briner, scoring 25.5 points for MIT, tied with Karin Fisher '11, in the pole
vault as both jumped NCAA qualifying marks and personal bests of 11-8.

The men, displayed both quality and depth in their victory. The Engineers won
eight of the 12 running events and three of the six field events, as well as
claiming second in nine of the 16 individual events.

The first final on the track was the mile. Bill Phipps '10, led nearly the
entire race, pushing the pace when everyone else was only interested in the
final 400. Running a 60 second final 400, Kyle Hannon '13, jumped the field to
win in 4:17.09, just missing an NCAA qualifying mark. Ben Mattocks '12, ran a
personal best of 4:24.82 for fourth and Phipps hung on for sixth in 4:25.18.

While Tech did not win the next final, the 55HH, it is worth noting that
freshman Eric Boyer, competing for the first time this year due to an earlier
hip flexor injury, led MIT to a 2-3-4-5 display of depth with a 8.09 time.
Brian Djaja '13, Nick Leonard '11, and Drew Musacchio claimed the other places
respectively.

In the 600, John Granata '11, who took the pace out way too fast with a 25
second first 200, nevertheless held on for a 1:23.68 second place, falling
only to teammate Pat Marx '13, in 1:23.28, who ran a near perfectly paced
race.

MIT took another 1-2 finish in the 800 as fellow freshmen, David Way and Gil
O'Neil ran 1:58.89 and 1:59.22. The other 800 runners were in the 1000, the
next event. Although they did not win, their times were fantastic as Stephen
Serene '12, Hannon and Logan Trimble placed 2-3-5 with times of 2:33.97,
2:34.39 and 2:34.91 respectively.

Stephen Morton '10, a busy guy on this day, won the 200 in 22.80 for a season
best performance. Josh Duncavage '13, claimed third in 23.43.

The MIT distance runners claimed victories in both the 3000 and 5000 meter
events. In the 3000, Hemu Arumugam '10, held off a furious kick to win in
8:39.58. He was supported by Paul Welle '11, who ran a season best of 8:48.03.
In the 5000, an ailing Gihan Amarasiriwardena '11, ran all alone out front to
win in 15:41.43. Matt Weaver '12, ran a PR for the second week in a row,
running 16:09.90 for fourth place.

The relays provided the most exciting races of the day as MIT and Springfield
did battle in both, with both coming down to the wire to be settled by less
than .2 of a second. In the 4x400, DJ Ronde '13, led off, giving MIT the lead
with a 52.3 split. Marx lost the lead, but handed off even, running an
excellent 50.7 leg. Way, was unable to pass the Springfield runner, but nearly
pulled even, although the handoff to Granata put MIT behind despite his 51.6
split. Granata went out hard to stay up with the fine anchor from Springfield,
but waited until the final straight to make his move. Finally taking the lead
with 10 meters to go, Granata ran 49.8 to give MIT the victory in 3:24.61. The
4x800 was no less exciting. O'Neil started out well, but faded in the last
200, running 2:02.6 to drop MIT behind. Trimble ran an excellent 1:59.8 leg to
take the lead at the handoff. Dawit Zewdie '13, did not run his fastest leg,
but put MIT in the lead with his 2:02.3 leg. Serene held onto the lead,
running a very courageous final 200 against the hard charging Springfield
anchor, to close in 2:00.5 for a cumulative time of 8:05.37.

The Tech throwers, owned their events, claiming 1-2-3 in both the weight throw
and the shot put. In the 35lb. weight, freshman Ken Cooper approached the
prestigious MIT freshman record of 52-10 with his winning heave of 51-5 3/4.
Close behind, CK Umachi, throwing despite a deep thigh bruise from getting hit
by the weight earlier in the week, tossed a PR of 51-5 1/2 for second. Tony
McDonald '10, threw 49-10 for third. In the shot put, James Oleinik 'G, won
the event even though he only threw 47-2 1/4. Mitch Kelley '11, put the shot
46-1 1/4 for second. McDonald again claimed third in 45-3.

The final victory for MIT was in the triple jump where Morton jumped 46-8 1/4
on only two jumps. Mattias Flander '11, showed he is getting close to
championship form with his 44-5 1/2 third place jump.

Even though they did not win the events, MIT competed well in the both the
long jump and pole vault. In the vault, All America Greg Tao '10, competed for
the first time since before the holidays. While he was not in championship
form, he did clear 14-5 1/4 for third place behind teammate Nathan Peterson
'12, also at 14-5 1/4, and Trent Wiseman of Colby, who had a career day,
clearing 15-3 to win. Morton jumped a season best and NCAA provisional
qualifying mark of 23-0 in the long jump but could not overtake Kevin Coyle of
Springfield who jumped 23-7 1/4. Rene Peters '13, and Flander jumped season
bests with leaps of 21-2 3/4 and 21-1 1/2 for fourth and fifth respectively.

Next week, MIT hosts rival Williams College and the Coast Guard Academy,
starting Saturday at noon.

RETURN TO INDOOR  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Jones Runs National Qualifying Time in 400

1/29/2010

Portia Jones and Jamie Simmons were the only MIT athletes running at Boston
University's Terrier Invitational. Both of the athletes as well as the rest of
their team have a four team invitational at Bowdoin College tomorrow.

Jones ran 58.01 in the 400 to provisionally qualify for the NCAA Division III
Championship. Jones finished eighth at the NCAA Championship last year and
hopes to improve on that mark this year. Her race today went well, but if she
had gotten the break it would likely have been better. Coming through the 200
in 26.9 was plenty fast enough, but the leader slowed dramatically, spiking
Jones as she was beginning to try to pass her. Jones came around to take the
lead off the final turn to win her section.

Simmons was running her first ever 800, a frightening endeavor for a 400
runner. She got out well and put herself in perfect position, but the 31
second first 200 put a lot of doubt in her mind. By the time she came through
67 for the 400, she was out of the race and just hanging on. However, she
never folded, holding on to run 2:22.26. This was a solid effort for her 800
debut.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Women's Relays Qualify for NCAA Division III Championship

2/12-13/2010

In MIT's first crack at running for times for qualifying purposes, as opposed
to just trying to win in order for the team to fair better, success was had in
many running events. MIT split their squad, keeping their short sprinters and
hurdlers as well as all field event participants at the MIT Invitational, and
took all their runners over to the Boston University Valentines Invitational.

The women's 400 runners started things off at BU. Portia Jones '12, got out
well, running the first 200 in 26.0. She tightened up a bit in the final 100,
not relaxing her arms as she should, but still ran a personal best of 55.98,
which is also the fastest time in the country for Division III and a new MIT
record. A few sections later, Jamie Simmons '12 took to the track. Simmons did
not get out well and ended up well in the back after the break, coming through
the 200 in 27.8. Even though she cut her momentum going into the final turn,
she still ran an indoor best of 58.65. Martha Gross '12, ran a near perfect
race in another 400 section, finishing with a nice personal best of 58.91.

Kirsten Aarsvold '11, was the lone MIT representative in the 500 and she
faired well, running a personal best of 1:21.74 after coming through the 400
in 63.7. Also running as the only MIT runner, was Margaret Leibovic '10, in
the 200. Leibovic produced a season best of 27.48.

In the mile run, Brooke Johnson '12, got into a section that went out well,
but when they slowed for the second quarter she did not take the lead. Instead
she waited until the final quarter to move to the front. She ran a 72 final
400, but it was too little, too late as she ran 5:02.46. Marie Burkland '12,
missing a week due to an injury, did not think about what she could not do.
Instead she just raced and came out with a huge personal best of 5:12.57.

Maggie Lloyd '12, ran an excellent first 1600 of the 3000, coming through in a
very well paced 5:31. It appeared she began to think at that point as her
expression suddenly changed and her pace slowed, decaying from 83 to 90 second
400 splits. However, Lloyd nevertheless ran a PR of 10:34.84.

The women's relays was where the real action was. Jones, Simmons, Gross, and
multi-eventer, Hazel Briner '11, put together a marvelous 4x400 that has many
wondering just how fast this quartet can run. Jones led things off, but the
team was not prepared for their race as they thought there were still sections
of the 1000 to come. Instead the top 4x400 teams were impatiently waiting for
Jones to get her blocks on the track and get her warmups off. This did not put
her in the best competitive frame of mind and she ran like it, going out in
27.5 and finishing in 58.7 to put MIT severely behind the leaders. Simmons,
ran much better than her open 400, putting herself in a very competitive
situation and splitting 57.6. Briner went out a little too fast, running 27.2
for the 200. Even though she fatigued at the end, she still held on for a
personal best of 59.2. Gross, after a terrible handoff, split 58.4 to give MIT
a marvelous 3:53.94. Putting all the parts together could mean something
special at nationals.

The Distance Medley Relay was run on the morning of day two of the
invitational. MIT's anchor, Jacqui Wentz '10, bothered by a sore foot, was not
able to race, so MIT inserted distance ace, Alina Gatowski '11, to run the
1600 leg. Johnson led things off with the 1200 leg. Unlike her mile race the
day before, Johnson got out in 71 for the first 400. Although the pace slowed
in the second quarter, Johnson still was racing well and took the lead,
blasting the final 400 to finish her leg in 3:38.2. Jones took the baton next
and even though the team once again did not plan their warmup appropriately,
she raced excellently, running 26.3 and 55.8 to move MIT up to second place.
Simmons was racing her second 800 ever and was obviously still fearful of the
distance as her approach to the event was much different than the 600.
However, she showed a glimpse of her potential as she split 66.2 en route to a
2:17.0 leg. MIT had just run 6:51 through the first three legs. So now it was
up to Gatowski to see how much she could better her PR of 5:22. Fortunately
for MIT, Gatowski raced and did not bother to think about how fast she was
running. She split 71 for the 400 and ran a personal best 800 in the half mile
split of 2:29. She obviously paid for the first quarter, but still held on for
an amazing 5:04.8 to give MIT a 11:55.71, easily an NCAA qualifying
performance and the fastest time in the country thus far.

The men did not have the national level performances, but nevertheless
performed very well. On Friday, the DMR unit of Paul Welle '11, Kahlil Dozier
'12, Logan Daum '11, and Hemu Arumugam took to the track trying to give MIT a
good enough performance to be in a faster section in the upcoming
championships. Despite poor running tactics of getting in behind people and
getting jostled repeatedly, Welle came through the 1200 in a respectable 3:10.
Dozier ran a very nice 52.1 to put MIT in good position for Logan Daum. Daum
ran very aggressively, splitting 26.9, 56.7 and 1:27.5 before finishing with a
personal best 1:59.0. Arumugam also took the aggressive approach, splitting 61
for the first 400. Although he backed off to run back to back 66s before
finishing in 64 for a 4:17.9, a personal 1600 best. The total time of 10:19.67
was quite good for the Engineers.

On Saturday, the rest of the men raced. In the 400, all three MIT runners ran
personal or season bests. Nick Leonard '11, ran 51.23, Dozier ran 51.62 and DJ
Ronde '13, ran 51.63.

The 500 went very well for Tech as Pat Marx '13, and John Granata '11, both
ran sub 1:06. Marx finished in 1:05.16 after splitting 49 for the 400 and
Granata raced to a 1:05.87. Marx's time moved him to number two all-time on
the MIT 500 list.

MIT had four runners in the 800. Gil O'Neil '13, ran the best tactical race as
well as the fastest time, finishing in 1:57.69 for the fastest MIT time thus
far this season. David Way '13, ran a very poor race, continuing to slow down
and cut in, only to have to slow down further and get back to the outside. The
bouncing around from lane one to three and back caused premature fatigue
resulting in a mediocre 1:58.30. Both Timmy Galvin '13, and Pat McDaniel '13,
ran season bests of 2:00.10 and 2:01.61 respectively.

The 1000 meter results set MIT up very well for the upcoming New England
Division III Championship as six runners were under 2:35. Richard Prevost '11,
took the lead early in his race and never looked back, finishing in 2:31.81.
Logan Trimble '13, ran an excellent 2:32.52. Bill Phipps '10, was inconsistent
with his pace, surging and then cutting back, but still ran a very fine
2:32.67. Stephen Serene '12, ran from the back and engaged too late in the
race to run to his potential but still ran a personal best of 2:33.47. Dawit
Zewdie '13, and Andrew Erickson '12, also ran personal bests of 2:34.23 and
2:34.34 respectively.

In the 200, Josh Duncavage '13, was the only MIT runner as he took a week off
from the high hurdles. Duncavage took advantage of the banked turns, running
22.61 for a personal best of nearly seven tenths.

MIT needed a faster 4x400 in order to get into next week's fast section, thus
giving themselves a better chance of placing in the event. Ronde, recovering
from a severe cold, could only split 51.7 on the opening leg. Marx came
through in the first 200 but seemed to lose focus in the second half of the
race, splitting 50.0. Way ran very well, handing off in 50.7. Granata brought
the baton home in 49.6 for a 3:22.02, cutting more than two seconds off their
personal best.

In the distance events, Gihan Amarasiriwardena '11, and Ben Mattocks '12, led
the way with outstanding performances in the 5000 and 3000 meters
respectively. Amarasiriwardena ran continuous 73-74 second quarters through
the first two miles then threw down a 4:50 final mile to run a 15:11.96 PR.
Mattocks also ran a personal best, finishing with a 31 final 200 to run the
3000 in 8:41.71.

Next week, MIT travels to Bates College with the men and University of
Southern Maine with the women to try to claim the New England Division III
titles.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**INJURIES AND ILLNESS OVERSHADOW SECOND PLACE FINISH**

February 20, 2010

What a difference a year makes. Last year, with barely enough women to field a
team, injuries and illness were non-existent entering the championships and
MIT came through to win their first New England Division III Championship, the
first of three in a row (outdoor, cross country). This year, with a larger
squad and looking like clear favorites a few weeks ago, bizarre injuries
started appearing to three of the team's strongest performers; Amy Magnuson
'10, Jacqui Wentz '10 and Anna Holt-Gosselin '11, (accounting for 48 points in
last year's championship), and with just two days to go before this year's
championship, three key competitors came down with fevers for MIT, potentially
losing another 20 plus points.

All of this served to lower the competitive morale of the women's team, taking
away that energy needed for the level of performance that makes the difference
between first and second place. Nevertheless, enough of the talent was able to
break through and propel MIT to second place in this year's New England
Division III Championship with 90 points. A much improved Williams College
team took championship honors with 158 points and Tufts University was third
out of 25 scoring teams with 73 points.

Hazel Briner '11, got things started with the pentathlon on Friday night.
Entering as the defending champion and top seed, she did not disappoint.
Starting with a personal best of 8.73 in the 55HH, Briner proceeded to jump
5-0 1/4 in the high jump, throw 35-8 in the shot put and leap 15-11 1/2 in the
long jump. She needed a 2:21 in the 800 to make the automatic NCAA qualifier,
but went out too hard, clocking a 15 second first 100. However she hammered
the last 200 to come pretty close, running 2:22.89 to score a new MIT record
of 3379 points and win the event by over 200 points.

Day two saw a freshman and varsity record in the mile by Brooke Johnson '13,
and a varsity record in the 4x200 by Portia Jones '12, Jamie Simmons '12,
Margaret Leibovic '10, and Martha Gross '12. Johnson, despite splitting 70
seconds for the first 400 and 2:25 for the 800, held on to earn third place in
4:57.75, a mark that should get her into the NCAA Division III Championship.
In the 4x200, meet management decided against laying out a three turn stagger,
not understanding that with a two turn stagger the extra distance traveled by
the outside lanes leading to a pending handoff would be up to a two foot
disadvantage for lane six. Leading off with Jones so the team could break free
of the clutter of handoffs, and starting in lane six, Jones got out well,
splitting 25.9 and accomplishing the goal of handing off in first. Simmons was
next and she held the lead, handing off to Leibovic. Springfield College's
speed literally caught up to MIT on the third leg, making it even up with just
the anchors to go. Springfield anchored with the second place finisher in the
open 200, and while Gross ran her heart out with a 25.5 split, it was not
quite enough. However, MIT's time of 1:45.32 was good enough for second and a
new MIT record.

The only victories for MIT on day two came from Jones in the 55HH and Simmons
in the 600. Jones had to persevere through three rounds of hurdles, running
the trials at 11:45, the semis at 12:30, the 4x200 at 2:00, the 55HH final at
2:35 and then the 400 at 2:45. Jones ran 8.64, 8.38 and then 8.34 to earn the
victory with her second fastest time ever in the event. Simmons went out
incredibly fast, splitting 29 in the first 200, but was boxed in for most of
the first lap. Feeling the fatigue from having to run in the middle of the
second lane to get around everyone, it looked as though she was not going to
be able to get past everyone, but with 150 meters to go she took off to win
with a personal best of 1:37.01.

Other than the 4x200, others gaining runner-up honors were Karin Fisher '11,
in the pole vault and Jones in the 400. Fisher cleared 11-5 3/4, just missing
at 12-01 1/2. Briner, coming back from her pentathlon, while trying to keep
control of a mild fever, managed to also vault 11-5 3/4 to place fourth. Lynn
Jepsen cleared a best of 10-6 to earn eighth. Jones got out well in the 400,
splitting 26, but finished well behind Higgs of Williams, who was fresh going
into the event.

It is quite a testament to the talent level of this team to be down nearly 70
points and still finish in second place. For the MIT women, the goal now is to
get ready for the NCAA Championships. Currently solid qualifiers are Briner in
the pole vault and the pentathlon, Jones in the 400 and 55HH, Johnson in the
mile, the 4x400 team of Simmons, Gross, Briner and Jones, and the distance
medley relay team of Johnson, Jones, Simmons and Alina Gatowski '11. Getting
Fisher in the pole vault, Tania Morimoto '12, and Gatowski in the 5000 and
Simmons and Gross in the 400 would give the Engineers a good chance at placing
among the top teams in three weeks. MIT will be back at Boston University this
coming Friday and Saturday for the NEICAAA Championship.

RETURN TO INDOOR  
  
  |  
  



