


  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Alums Claim Seven Individual Victories in Annual Alumni/ae Meet

December 14, 2019

This weekend, as the MIT Track & Field team members end a trying week of final
projects and prepare for final exams, and the alums coming from around the
country to watch and compete, take a break from their work schedules to honor
the annual Alumni/ae vs. Varsity meet that is now in its 46th year, there is
one constant and that is the feeling of family.  This meet continues to
highlight the "team first" traditions that define the MIT Track & Field
program.

As is customary, MIT does not compete any of their cross country athletes who
were competing during the championship season, which took out a good chunk of
the 800-5K field.  In addition, quite a few student-athletes were feeling the
effects of the challenging academic week, enough so that more than a few were
held out of competition to prevent further injury.

When it was all said and done, the Varsity men outlasted the "Has-Beens"
90-27, while the Varsity women were more challenged, winning 69-36.  Leading
the way for the Alums were Hannah Chen '18 and Jackie Vahey '17, both scoring
eight points despite not practicing at all leading up to the competition.
Chen won the Long Jump with a leap of 17-8, probably an indoor personal best,
and placed second in the 60 Meter Dash, running 8.21.  Vahey won the Weight
Throw with a throw of 50-4 and then claimed second in the Shot Put with a 36-5
effort.

There were three additional winners for the Alumnae; Cimmy Virdi '16 in the
Pole Vault, clearing 12-7 1/2, Isabella Stuopis '16, winning the Shot Put in
37-7 3/4, and Louise van den Heuvel '14 laying claim to the 800 title in
2:20.84.  The Alumni had two victors; Scott Cameron '19 taking the Pole Vault
in 13-11 1/4 and Cody Bratten '19 winning the Shot Put with a throw of 44-3
1/2 on his final throw.

It is well known that the alumni are extremely loyal and supportive of the
varsity program, donating hundreds of thousands of dollars to allow the
program to grow and compete at the highest level of the NCAA.  One of the main
background stories going into the meet was a challenge presented by Arinze
Okeke '16, who declared that if he were to get beat in the High Jump by Steven
Speck '20, Alec Reduker '20 in the Triple Jump and Steven Marquez '23 in the
Long Jump, he would double his donation this year.  In addition, Okeke was
trying to score in the 35 lb. Weight Throw and the Shot Put--a tall task for
someone who graduated three and half years ago and was only a horizontal
jumper when he attended MIT, although he always wanted to do more.  The High
Jump was first on the agenda.  Okeke cleared 5-7 1/4, 5-9 1/4 and 5-11 1/4
with no problem.  Speck was ahead on misses and was hurting too much to
continue after 5-11 1/4.  Okeke cleared a personal best 6-1 1/4 on his third
attempt to nullify the challenge in the first event.  For good measure, he
came back to beat Marquez (6-5 1/4 in the High Jump) in the Long Jump when he
leaped 21-7 1/2 and took down Reduker in the Triple Jump by going 46-0 1/2.
For good measure, he threw the Weight 43-8 and the Shot Put 36-11.  Although
he only scored four points for his team in the 5-3-1 scoring format, his
spirit was indefatigable.

Other point scorers for the alums were Tyler Singer-Clark '14, third in both
the 60 (7.55) and 200 (24.28), Danny Newman '17, second in the 200 (23.66),
Aidan Gilson '19, second in the Mile (4:29.84), David Walter '18 and Josh
Rosenkranz '19 laying claim to second and third respectively in the 5K
(15:45.49 and 15:48.56), and Jon Fakkema '19, third in the Weight Throw (51-4
1/4).

For the Alumnae, Preethi Vaidyanathan '15, was third in the High Jump (5-1
1/4), and Kari Stromhaug '19,  was second in the Pole Vault (12-1 3/4).

The only double winner for the Varsity was two-time national champion Yorai
Shaoul '21.  Shaoul, still not on a full approach, jumped 22-5 3/4 in the Long
Jump and then jumped an impressive 48-4 3/4 to take the Triple Jump.  An
impressive victory was turned in by Zach Johnson '22.  Johnson led all but 600
meters of the 5K, clicking off 1600 splits of 4:50, 4:57, 5:03 en route to a
15:26.84 victory.  Kenneth Wei '23 set the freshman record of 8.55 in an
uncontested 60HH victory.

Margaret Redfield '21 had the most impressive Varsity victory for the women,
claiming the High Jump with a 5-5 1/4 performance.  This moves Redfield into a
tie for second place on the MIT all-time list.  Laena Tieng '23 won the Triple
Jump with a mark of 35-9 1/4 to move her to ninth on the MIT all-time list.
Also moving to ninth on the all-time list was Kimmy McPherson '23 who won the
60HH in 9.72.  Sarah Ishamuddin '21 moved up to seventh on the 60 Meter Dash
list with her 8.15 victory.

Other participating Alums were Sope Eweje '19 (200), Alex Knapp '19 (Mile,
5K), Nicholas Waltman '18 (Mile), Colin Godwin '17 (Mile, 5K), Jordan Mizerak
'14 (High Jump, Mile), Rory Beyer '17 (5K), Matt Falk '12 (High Jump, Shot
Put), James Kirtley '94 (High Jump), Nate Sharpe '09 (Pole Vault), Marshall
Wentworth '16 (Pole Vault), Javit Drake '94 (Open Mile), Kristen Frombach '19
(400), Alexandra Taylor '14 (400), Jackie Brew '14 (4x200), Jen Tylock '17
(Pole Vault), Emily Cole '09 (Pole Vault), Stephanie Guo '17 (High Jump, Shot
Put), Natalie Alper '17 (High Jump), and Julia Sharpe '09 (High Jump).

Those in attendance cheering on their fellow "Has-Beens" were Don Shobrys '75,
Eric Khatchadourian '06, Patrick Barragan '08, Nick Leonard '11, Josh
Duncavage '13, Roy Wedge '14, Angel Echevarria '16, Elaine McVay '15, Veronica
Szklarzewski '15, Ariela Slutsky '18, Dana Balek '18, Bailee Margolis '19 and
Camilla Thanos '19.

MIT will be off the next three weeks as they have a week of exams and then two
weeks at home for the Holidays.  The next meet will be a tri-meet vs. Bates
College and Colby College on January 11 at Bates.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Men Claim 13 Event Wins, Women 10 as Both Teams Take Away Victories Over Bates
and Colby

January 11, 2020

Going into the Bates College, Colby College, MIT Tri Meet hosted by Bates,
MIT's Track & Field team had not practiced together since December 14 due to
an exam week and two weeks away for the holiday season.  There was quite a bit
of rust on the team and it certainly showed.  However, despite this, and the
many who did not compete due to not being ready as they return from injury,
the team competed very well with few exceptions.

The men won 13 of 19 events and did not participate in one where they have the
defending national champion \- the Triple Jump, due to the shortened runway at
this facility.  Scoring 5-3-2-1 for individual events and 5-3-0 for relays,
Tech also claimed 11 second places as they racked up 110 points to 51 for
Bates and 13 for Colby.

The women for MIT were a little thinner in numbers, but in addition to 10
event victories, they were able to take away seven second places as they
totaled 86 points, outscoring Bates with 60 and Colby with 35 points.

Going into the meet with the plan of not over challenging any of their
athletes (no one tripled), and moving a few runners into events that were not
their best, many athletes not accustomed to being in the position, won events
and or scored many of MIT's point total.

The men began with the Weight Throw and High Jump for the first events of the
meet.  Alec Reduker '20 had a little problem clearing, and his jumps were
certainly not pretty, but as the event went on, he got better.  He cleared 6-8
3/4 and just barely missed 6-11 1/2 as he won the event and teammate Chris
Washington '20 took second place at 6-4 3/4, narrowly missing 6-8 3/4.

Albert Menio '20 set a personal best in placing second in the Weight Throw,
throwing 54-2 1/2.  Placing third, Ryan Nall '22 also threw a PR, his being
51-8 1/2.

Next up was the Long Jump and the Pole Vault.  Yorai Shaoul '21, the national
runner-up last outdoor season, jumped 22-9 3/4 to win the event as he dusted
some of the rust off. MIT did not jump their national third place finisher,
Reduker, but they did jump Kenneth Wei '23, who took third place with a jump
of 22-1 1/2.  Steven Marquez '23 added a fourth at 20-5 3/4.

Similar to the Long Jump, the Pole Vaulters employed a longer approach than
they did in the Alumni Meet, and this led to improved heights.  Bobby Upton
'20 won with a jump of 14-7 1/4.  Brian Sperry '23 took second place at 14-1
1/4 and Max Hardy claimed third, also with a vault of 14-1 1/4.

The final field events were the Shot Put and the Triple Jump.  MIT may have
the best triple jump squad in all of Division III, but elected not to compete
any of them due to the shortened approach.  However, in the Shot Put, despite
the loss of Will Woltmann '22 due to torn ligaments in his toe in the final
football game of the season, placed 1-2-3.  Nate Basinger '22 won with a
personal best of 46-11 1/2.  Henry Sobieszczyk '23 placed second with a put of
44-2 3/4 and Menio claimed third at 43-9 3/4.

Out of a possible 55 points in the five field events they participated in, the
Engineers netted 41. On the track there was more of the same.  The only
running events not won by MIT were the 1,000 Meter and 4x800 Relay, in which
MIT took second in both.

Wei got things started with a new Freshman Record in the 60 Meter High
Hurdles, running 8.32 for the victory.  In the sprint equivalent, McKinley
Polen '23 and Benton Wilson '21 went 1-2 in the 60 Meter Dash.  Polen ran 7.14
and Wilson ran 7.22.  In the Trials, Wilson ran 7.15, but had a poor start in
the Final.

The order was reversed in the 200.  Wilson got out well and showed why he is
the defending New England Division III Champion in the 200, winning easily in
22.79.  Polen finished third with a 23.73 performance.

Nisarg Dharia '23 claimed his first victory, running 52.50 in the 400 after an
aggressive 24.1 first 200 left him a bit gassed in the final 100.  Andrew Shao
'22 supported that effort with a second place 53.41.

In the 600, Reed Foster '22 and Nick Duchatellier '22 placed first and second.
Duchatellier battled it out with a Bates runner for much of the race while
Foster ran a more even paced race.  In the final 100, Foster came from way
back to move from third to first, running 1:25.25.  Duchatellier ran 1:25.56.

Matt Schofield '22 passed Ellery Rajagopal '21, who had done much of the work
in the early stages of the 800, right before the finish line to claim first
place.  Rajagopal took control after a pedestrian 31 first 200.  He ran 30's
for the next two 200's, finishing with a 29 to run 2:00.67.  Schofield nipped
his teammate at the line with a 2:00.64.

After placing first and second in the Mile Run, running a slow but steady pace
to run 4:29.21 and 4:29.59 respectively, Andrew Mah '22 and Lowell Hensgen '23
returned to race the 1,000.  The pace was solid at 31 seconds each 200, but
Mah fell off in the final 200, finishing second in 2:36.94.  Hensgen fell off
after 600 meters, finishing in fourth n 2:39.76.  Both are obviously more at
home in the distance events.

In the 3K, Finn Jacobson-Schulte '21 was unable to set a solid pace early, and
fell off the pace after the first mile.  Sam Acquaviva '23 was hanging in the
middle of the field until the mile mark.  He moved to the lead after a very
slow 4:55 and proceeded to run 72, 70, 66 and 33 for the final 1,400 meters to
easily win in 8:56.10.

The 4x400 Relay was one of the more exciting races of the day.  Dharia gave
Shao the lead after a 52.9 lead-off leg.  Shao fell behind despite a 52.0
split.  Foster ran 52.9 to put Duchatellier even-up for the anchor leg.
Duchatellier took the lead in the final 100, running 51.4 to bring home the
victory in 3:29.46.

The final event of the day, the 4x800 Relay was not an event won by MIT.
Schofield led off, but instead of setting his teammates up properly with his
best effort, he raced his opponent.  The end result, his 2:04.6, hurt the end
product.  Josh Derrick '20, returning from the Mile Run, tried to make up
ground too quickly, running 29.2 and 60.1, which is a bit fast for this pure
distance runner.  He paid for it, running 2:09.  Zach Johnson '22 made the
exact same mistake and paid similarly, finishing in 2:08.  Rajagopal anchored,
and although he went out too fast in 27.9, he did finish pretty well in 2:01
to close the gap a bit.

While the women's meet was a bit more competitive, it was primarily the
sprints and hurdles where MIT got hurt the most as they only scored three
points total in the 60, 200, 60HH and 4x400 events.

The throwers got things started with a 1-2-4 finish in the Weight Throw.  Tema
Nwana '21 had a huge personal best in winning the event with a throw of 48-4
1/2.  Folusho Jebutu '20 added a second with a throw of 44-7.  In the Shot
Put, they again went 1-2-4.  This time Lily Papalia '22 led the way with a
36-0 3/4 performance. Jebutu again earned second with a 34-9 put.

In the vertical events, Jacqueline Ahrens '21 won the Pole Vault, clearing
10-8 and Lila Wine '21 claimed third with a 10-2 effort.  While Margaret
Redfield '21 did not win the High Jump, she did clear 5-5 1/4 for second
place.

Veronica Perdomo '23 and Yilinn Yang '22 placed first and second in the Long
Jump, jumping 16-8 3/4 and 16-8 1/2 respectively.  All together, MIT earned 41
out of a possible 66 field event points.

Tech dominated the middle-distance and distance events, winning the 800, 1000,
Mile and 3K.  In the Mile Run, Katie Collins '21 took the lead early and never
relinquished it, running a comfortable, even paced 5:13.46.  Jenna Melanson
'20, running her first race since last outdoor season, placed second in
5:14.09.

Margaret Trautner '20 and Marissa McPhillips '20 knocked some rust off in the
800, taking it out from the start and even splitting a 2:19.  Trautner won in
2:19.03 and McPhillips took second in 2:19.32.

Katie Williams '21 came back from an unsuccessful Mile to win the 1000.  The
initial pace was pretty slow, coming through the 800 in 2:35, but her 33 final
200 clinched the victory in 3:08.34.

In the 3K, Alana Chandler '22 took over the pace when the second 400 slowed to
88 pace.  She ran 86 pace initially and continued to pick it up, running
10:39.04 for the victory.

Nina Rhone '23 won her first collegiate race, taking the 600 in 1:42.65.
Skylar Brooks '21 placed fourth by winning the first section in 1:43.57.

Claire Melvin '22 dominated the 400 in 61.76.  She won the break and never
looked back.

The Engineer's final victory came in the 4x800 Relay.  Distance runners
Collins and Einat Gavish '22 ran the first two legs, dying pretty badly and
putting MIT in a pretty big hole.  McPhillips went out a bit too fast in 32,
put still held on for a 2:21.7 as she caught the leaders at the hand-off.
Trautner made short work of the anchor leg, pulling away for the 9:41.13
victory.

Next week MIT travels to Kingston, Rhode Island to compete in the Sorlein
Invitational.  The competing teams will be URI, UMass Amherst, Connecticut,
Southern Connecticut State, Assumption, Stonehill and Quinipiac.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

MIT Men and Women Take Home Team Victories at Tufts Branwen Smith-King
Invitational

February 1, 2020

The Branwen Smith-King Invitational is scheduled as an invitational, so teams
do not really go to this meet trying to win the team title, neither did MIT.
However, this is a scored meet.  Leaving home all male distance runners, and
all but one female distance runner, competed freshman superstar Kenneth Wei
and the top pole vaulters at another meet, as well as not doubling more than a
small handful of individuals, the Engineers were focused on performing better
than they had thus far this season. Nevertheless, the men won over host Tufts
and the other 20 teams with 135.5 points, while the women won with 143 points.

To this point, MIT has fared well in competition, and displayed a competitive
spirit, but the performances just were not where they should be at this time
of the season.  After a team meeting addressed this matter, Tech athletes came
to right the ship, and they came through quite well.

Alec Reduker '20 led the way for MIT.  Competing in the Long Jump for the
first time this year, and the first time ever indoors, he won easily, jumping
23-02 1/2, moving him to #5 on the MIT all-time list, and #13 on the current
NCAA Division III season ranking. The senior moved over to the High Jump,
which had already been underway for some time, and promptly cleared 6-2 3/4.
He then cleared 6-4 3/4, 6-6 3/4 and 6-9 to win the event over teammates Chris
Washington '20 at 6-6 3/4 and Steven Marquez '23 at 6-4 3/4 as MIT swept the
event.  Already ranked #3 in the country with his 6-10 1/4, he moved the bar
to 7-1.  He had solid attempts, but was unable to clear the height on this
day.

Reduker is also ranked at #4 in the country in the Triple Jump, which he just
started this season.  He did not compete in the Triple Jump at this meet, but
Yorai Shaoul '21 did.  The defending national champion only jumped in the
trials, as once he reached 48-9, easily winning the event, the junior called
it quits to further let his body recover as he gets closer to championship
time.  His 48-9 is ranked #5 in the country.

Ryan Nall '22 had a breakthrough day in the throwing events. For the second
week in a row, the sophomore added ~ three feet to his personal best, throwing
57-4 3/4 to place second.  In the Shot Put, Nall threw an indoor best of 45-7
1/4 to place fifth.  This is still three feet south of where he threw outdoors
last year, but he is closing the gap.  Nathan Basinger '22 also had a big day
in the throws, throwing two personal bests.  In the Weight Throw he placed
sixth, throwing 50-6.  He came back in the Shot Put, earning third place with
a 47-5 1/4 put.

Things were going well on the track as well.  McKinley Polen '23 and Jeremiah
Budiman '23 did battle in the 60 Meter Dash, teaming up to lay a solid beat
down on the competition as they scored 15 points.  In the trials, Polen got
out well, running a PR of 7.07 while Budiman ran 7.13.  Both advanced to the
semis where Budiman had a strong start en route to a PR of 7.08.  Polen had a
very poor start, but still qualified for the final with his 7.15.  In the
finals, Polen again had a great start, which led to a victory in another 7.07.
Budiman was close behind in fourth in 7.12.

Benton Wilson '21 had a casual day, only racing the 200 and the junior
responded with the 10th best time in the country, winning with a 22.27.  He
was not challenged at anytime in the race and will certainly run faster when
he is challenged.

In the 400, Nick Duchatellier '22 won with a 51.10 performance.  This was the
first 400 of the year for Duchatellier.  As he gets accustomed to the event
and gets challenged, his times will surely drop.  Also performing well in the
long sprints were Nisarg Dharia '23, who placed sixth in the 400 in 51.88, and
Andrew Shao '22, who placed sixth in the 200 in 23.40 and eighth in the 400 in
52.22.

Reed Foster '22 returned to competition after dealing with an injury for a few
weeks.  He won the 800 off a casual first 600 followed by a 28 final 200 to
pull away from the competition in 1:58.97.

Laena Tieng '23 led the way for the women, winning both horizontal jumps.  The
freshman won the Long Jump with a 16-11 1/4 jump, leading her teammates to a
1-2-4-6-8 domination of the event.  She returned in the Triple Jump, jumping a
personal best of 36-6 3/4.  Lucy Lee '21 added a fourth place and Rikita
Bansal '22 jumped an MIT best 35-1 for sixth.  Overall, the Engineers scored
45 points in the horizontal jumps.

Tech also dominated in the Mile.  While they lost first place, Marissa
McPhillips '20, Katie Williams '21 and Margaret Trautner '20 teamed up to go
2-3-4 with very solid performances, running 5:04.89, 5:06.22 and 5:07.07
respectively.  This moved them to 13th, 16th and 18th on the NCAA Division III
ranking list. The trio, along with Skylar Brooks '20 got together to win the
4x800 Relay in 9:28.73.

Tema Nwana '21 had the most unlikely double.  First she threw a personal best
of 49-7 1/4 in the Weight Throw to place second and move up to #7 on the MIT
all-time list. She then went over to the Long Jump to place sixth with a jump
of 15-11 1/2.

Next week, the Engineers return to Tufts for the Cupid Invitational.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

MIT Dominates Tufts Cupid Invitational With National Marks

February 8, 2020

MIT Track & Field traveled across town to compete at Tufts University for the
second week in succession, this time in the Cupid Invitational. MIT's primary
objective was to qualify individuals in necessary events for the New England
Division III championship and the NCAA Division III championship, while
resting those who have already qualified.  With three weeks before the former
and five weeks before the latter, performances all through New England and
around the country are improving rapidly.  After a very successful Saturday,
MIT should improve on their Men's and Women's national team ranking which had
the men at number five and the  women at number six going into the
competition.

Kenneth Wei '23 again led the way for the Engineers.  The super freshman
jumped 23-8 1/4 in the Long Jump to move to number six in the country, and set
the MIT Rookie Record while moving to number two all-time for MIT.  This is
the first time in MIT history that they have had three 23 foot jumpers at the
same time.  Wei came back in the Triple Jump to win with a leap of 46-5 1/4,
which is 10th on the MIT all-time list and 23rd on the current national list.

Bobby Upton '20 moved to number nine on the NCAA list when he won the Pole
Vault with a 15-9 performance.  This also moved Upton to number 10 on the MIT
All-time list.  Upton narrowly missed 15-11.

On the track, Andrew Mah '22 took first place in the 3K with an 8:32.62
performance, which moves him to 24th on the NCAA list.  Matthew Kearney '22
continues to improve rapidly as her returns to competition.  The sophomore
placed fourth in 8:44.74.

Chris Washington '20 took first place honors in the High Jump, clearing the
bar at 6-8 1/4. Washington was over 6-10, but hit the bar on the way down to
barely displace it.  His mark is currently 17th on the NCAA list.

While the mark is not likely to qualify for nationals, the 4x400 moved to
number nine on the national list with their 3:22.32 winning performance.
Although Nisarg Dharia '23 and Andrew Shao '22 faced come competition, by the
time Nick Duchatellier '22 and Benton Wilson '21 got the baton, the race was
over.  Dharia split a fine 51.5 on the flat track.  An excellent hand-off to
Shao kick-started a 50.6, by far the best indoor split ever for Shao.
Duchatellier split 50.4 and Wilson a 49.7 as they brought the baton around in
first.

Overall, the men won nine events. Ryan Nall '22 stole the Weight Throw victory
from teammate Albert Menio '20 on his final throw, throwing 55-7 3/4 to 55-5
1/2 for Menio.

On the track, prior to the 4x400, Wilson won the 200 in 22.32.  Reed Foster
'22 was forced to lead the 1000 at the start, and held it to the finish in
2:33.13.

Leading the way for the women were a pair of dominating performances from
Katie Collins '21 and Jenna Melanson '20 in the 3K.  Taking the lead from the
start, Collins and Melanson gradually put all competitors in their rear view
mirror.  The pair came through the 1600 in 5:14, which is close to Melanson's
PR.  The pair slowed slightly to 81 pace the rest of the way as Collins
crossed the line first in 9:57.53 with Melanson close behind in 9:59.47.  This
moved the pair to seventh and ninth respectively on the national list.

Jacqueline Ahrens '21 joined teammate Anais Marenco '22 in clearing 11-7 3/4
in the Pole.  Marenco won the event with Ahrens placing second.  They are
currently ranked 19th and 21st in the NCAA rankings.  Both assume they will be
over 12' soon.

Tema Nwana '21 continued her rapid improvement in the Weight Throw.  Her
second place performance of 50-8 moved her to number five on the MIT all-time
list.

In the High Jump, Liana Reilly '21 cleared 5-4 1/2 to move to number 22 on the
NCAA list and in a tie for fourth on the all-time MIT list with her new PR.

Back on the track, Margaret Trautner '20 and Marissa McPhillips '20 went 1-2
in the 1000.  McPhillips took the lead when no one else wanted to.  She and
Trautner soon made it a two-person race.  Trautner pulled even with one lap
remaining and moved to the front, leading the way to the finish in 2:58.34 to
2:58.49.

Next week, MIT will split their squad with most oval track runners competing
at the Boston University Valentine's Invitational, most field events athletes,
sprinters and hurdlers at MIT's own Gordon Kelly Invitational.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Field Event Performances Highlight Art Farnham Invitational

January 25, 2020

MIT sent a number of oval runners to the Boston University John Thomas Terrier
Invitational, but most of the team competed at the home meet, the Art Farnham
Invitational. The competition was much better in the field events and MIT
athletes took advantage of it.

In the Weight Throw, Ryan Nall '22 had another breakthrough to increase his
personal best to 53-3 1/2, placing second in the event.  Also throwing
personal bests were Nathan Basinger '22 (49-0 3/4) and Henry Sobieszczyk '23
(39-5).  Likewise, in the Women's Weight Throw, Savannah Inglin '20 threw a
personal best 47-8 1/2 to claim second place.

The Women's Pole Vault  was a success for Jacqueline Ahrens '21 and Lila Wine
'21 as both cleared 11-1 3/4 for season bests.

Laena Tieng '23 won the Triple Jump on her final attempt, jumping a personal
best 36-2 1/4.  Also in the jumps, Liana Reilly '21 jumped a season best 5-3
1/4 to win the High Jump.

On the track, Kimmy McPherson '23 ran a nice personal best of 9.55 in the 60HH
to earn the victory.

Next week the Engineers will rest many of their athletes, but will send a few
to the NEICAAA Championship at the Reggie Lewis Center.  The rest of those
competing will be at the Tufts Branwen Smith-King Invitational.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Kenneth Wei Sets MIT Varsity and Freshman 60HH Record

February 1, 2020

Still managing a hamstring issue from the meet two weeks ago, Kenneth Wei '23
was only entered in the 60HH at the NEICAAA Championship being held at the
Reggie Lewis track in Boston.  Wei made the best of the opportunity, setting
the MIT Varsity and Rookie record of 8.12, placing third in the process.  This
mark puts the freshman at #7 on the NCAA Division III list.

MIT sent a small handful of athletes to this meet, which is a New England
championship for all membership colleges, Division I, II and III. For many
reasons, the meet is not attended by many Division III colleges, but nearly
all of the DI and DII colleges in New England bring their best.

On the men's side, in addition to Wei, Bobby Upton '20 and Bryan Sperry '23
represented MIT in the Pole Vault.  Upton tied for sixth, jumping a season
best 14-11, and had some very solid jumps at 15-5.  Sperry, still on less than
a full approach, had difficulty bringing enough speed, and was unable to clear
the opening height.

Wei ran an 8.39 in the preliminary round, as he was uncomfortable with the
blocks supplied by the venue.  Nevertheless he qualified for the semi-finals.
He ran 8.16 for the second fastest semi-final time, this time using his MIT
blocks.  In the final, Wei earned his third place with his record setting
8.12.

For the women, Margaret Redfield '21 cleared 5-3 1/4 in he High Jump, but did
not place.  In the Pole Vault, MIT competed Jacqueline Ahrens '21, Anais
Marenco '22 and Lila Wine '21.  Marenco cleared 11-7 3/4, Ahrens 11-1 3/4 and
Wine was unable to clear a height.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

MIT's Big Three Lead The Way at Sorlein Invitational

January 18, 2020

MIT Track & Field dropped the long-standing Bowdoin Invite from their schedule
this year, replacing it with the University of Rhode Island Sorlein
Invitational.  The Bowdoin meet was a competitive meet for most of the MIT
competitors, but for those national level competitors on the team, an increase
in the competitive level was desired.  Competing teams were all Division I or
II teams with the exception of MIT. In attendance were host URI, University of
Connecticut, University of Massachusetts, Southern Connecticut State
University, Assumption College, Quinnipiac University and Stonehill College.

Last spring, Yorai Shaoul '21 and Alec Reduker '20 were responsible for 30
points at the NCAA Division III Championship, earning second place as a team
with the help of six points from Liam Ackerman '21 in the Pole Vault.
Freshman Kenneth Wei '23 was added to the roster and is already doing some
amazing things.  They are thus far regarded as the Big Three.  Regarding
Reduker, Shaoul and Wei, the bell was answered.  Reduker started with a miss
at 6-3 1/4, but cleared on his second attempt.  He then made 6-5 on his first
attempt.  At 6-7 he again needed two attempts to clear, but then cleared 6-8
3/4 on his first attempt. He cleared 6-10 1/4 on his third attempt.  Kevin
Hack '20 of Assumption cleared on his second attempt.  This was not a scored
meet, so Reduker passed at 7-0, which Hack attempted and missed on all three
attempts.  Reduker attempted 7-1 and was close on all three attempts, but had
to settle with second place on misses and a national qualifying mark.  He is
currently ranked second in Division III.

Wei, undefeated in the high hurdles thus far this year, had run 8.32.  The
competition promised he would need to do better.  Wei had the top time in the
trials at 8.38.  In the finals, Wei inched ahead through the first three
hurdles.  He then focused on sprinting instead of hurdling.  The extra three
inches of hurdle height are still a bit of an obstacle for the freshman, and
he slightly hit the last two hurdles.  However, his 8.22 took the victory and
established yet another MIT freshman record for Wei.  He is .02 away from the
MIT varsity record for 60 Meter High Hurdles.  The NCAA and MIT shifted from
the 55 Dash and 55HH to the 60 Meter distance in 2012.  Wei's performance is
not a sure thing for NCAA qualifying although he is currently tied for eighth
in the country for Division III.

Wei and Shaoul were in the Long Jump at the time of the 60HH Final.  Wei had
jumped 22-9 3/4 in the trials.  After the hurdles, his hamstring, which had
been injured earlier in the season, tightened up enough that he withdrew from
the competition.  Shaoul passed Wei, jumping 23-0 1/2 to finish second in the
event, just ahead of Wei.  Shaoul is ranked 10th nationally, and Wei 15th.

All three were entered in the Triple Jump, but with Wei's hamstring and Shaoul
being cautious with some pain he was feeling, Reduker was the lone MIT
competitor. As he continues to amaze his teammates and coaches, it seems there
is nothing the senior cannot do.  Last year, with no prior experience, Reduker
wanted to compete in the Long Jump. With some reluctance, the coaches agreed
and it ultimately paid off with a third place finish at the NCAA Division III
Championship, finishing behind Shaoul with a jump of 24-8 1/4.  Even before
the long jump experiment, Reduker has been begging to try the Triple Jump.
With his inexperience and back problems, the coaches were reluctant to
acquiesce.  However, when someone with the success of Reduker says they can do
it, one tends to believe them.  Having jumped 46-11 in his first effort at the
MIT Intrasquad Meet back in December, it was no surprise when he jumped 48-10
1/4 to win the Triple Jump on Saturday. He is now ranked second in all of
DIII, just ahead of Shaoul.

Benton Wilson '21 won the 400 earlier in the day, running a smart, well-paced
race to finish in 50.93 for his first 400 of the season.  He then came back in
the 200, placing second in 22.35 on the 200 meter flat track.

In other strong performances for the men, Albert Menio '20 threw a personal
best of 56-4 in the 35 lb. Weight Throw, placing third.  Ellery Rajagopal '21
ran an indoor personal best of 1:58.42 in the 800.  Lowell Hensgen '23 ran a
solid 3K, placing second in 8:45.00.

The women had numerous strong performances.  Marissa McPhillips '20 had the
best double of the day. The Rhode Island native reacted well to competing in
her home state.  In the Mile, she moved up to the front pack, and moved well
to counter a change of pace, coming through the half in 2:32.  The pace slowed
significantly in the third quarter, and McPhillips went for the win.  Despite
a 75 second final quarter, and a fine early season time of 5:07.97, she placed
second, .12 out of first.  The senior returned in the 1000.  The first 200,
led by teammate Margaret Trautner '20, was well paced at 35, but then slowed
dramatically to 39 second pace.  McPhillips allowed the pace to remain slow as
they came through the 800 in 2:30.  She kicked in with a 34 last 200 to finish
in 3:04.80, but again it was just short of winning, this time by .75.

Anais Marenco '22 finished fourth in the Pole Vault with a season best vault
of 11-7 3/4.  Lily Papalia '22 threw a personal best in the Shot Put, placing
second in her flight with a put of 37-11 1/2.  Savannah Inglin '20 threw a
personal best of 46-6 1/4 in the Weight Throw.  Season bests were had by
Yilinn Yang '22 (16-10 1/2) and Laena Tieng '23 (16-8) in the Long Jump.  Lucy
Lee had a season best in the Triple Jump, placing sixth, jumping 36-2 3/4.

The lone victory was earned by Katie Collins '21 in the 3K.  Being the top
seed, her and teammate Jenna Melanson '20 took the pace out pretty hard,
clicking off 79 second 400's.  The field dropped back immediately, conceding
the victory.  Collins came through the 1600 in 5:18.  Melanson was a little
gun shy by the pace and fell off just before the 1600, coming through in 5:24.
Not challenged, Collins lost some focus and motivation, slowing a little to 82
second pace, finishing in 10:06.12.  Melanson earned second in 10:27.36.

Next week, MIT will split their squad, sending some to the Boston University
Terrier Classic on Friday and Saturday, and others to their own meet on
Saturday, the Art Farnham Invitational.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

MIT Has Strong Performances at Terrier Invitational Despite Strategic Errors

January 24-25, 2020

The first of two marathon meets at Boston University, the John Thomas Terrier
Invitational was held this weekend.  With over 3,000 entries, and impressive
fields led by the likes of Lolo Jones (60HH) and Paul Tanui (5K) the 10 hour
days of competition promised many thrilling moments.  Day one was for the
women, with the exception of the Men's Elite 5K (13:15 winning time) and DMR.
The men were competing on day two.

MIT brought a handful of runners to take advantage of arguably the fastest
indoor track in the world.  The NCAA corrects for any track over 200 meters in
size, or any banked track.  The penalty is uniform regardless of the oversize
or the degree of the bank.  Most banked tracks are not worth the penalty, but
the BU track is worth it, hence the willingness for so many to enter at $30
per entry.

Margaret Trautner '20 got things started for the Engineers, racing the 800.
Despite having the flu early in the week, the senior seemed no worse for it.
Seeded the slowest in her section, she came through the 200 in last, splitting
32.5.  She slowly moved up in the field, earning second in her section with a
fine early season time of 2:13.75.  Also in the 800 for Tech were Skyler
Brooks '20 and Nina Rhone '23.  Brooks raced well with the exception of
slowing down too much in the middle laps.  She finished tough in a personal
best of 2:18.35. Rhone did not respond to opportunities that were presented to
her during the race, but still ran 2:20.76 for a season best.

In the 400, Sarah Ishamuddin '21 took advantage of the banked track to lower
her season best to 60.42. She hit the first split in 27.7, but fell off after
a few changes in momentum.

Katie Williams '21 was in a fast section of the 1,000 and took advantage of
that opportunity even though she did not mix it up with the field.  She
started out in the back and basically did her own thing, ignoring the
competition, but using them as a gauge, splitting 33.9, 69.6 and 1:45.8.  She
finished pretty strong to run 2:57.06.  Katie Bacher '20 was in the 1,000 for
her season debut, coming back from a cross country injury.  In the first lap
the senior fell hard when she tried to avoid the outside alley breaking in.
She jumped up quickly, but over-reacted, putting too much energy into getting
back into the race.  With her conditioning still lacking, she faded at the
end, running 3:08.47.

The Mile Run was up and Marissa McPhillips '20 was hoping for a strong
performance after her 5:07 flat track effort last week.  The pace was
initially slow, splitting 77 for the first quarter.  The slow pace caused a
lot of contact, nearly taking McPhillips out at one point.  The pace picked
up, spreading out the field as McPhillips split 2:31.  As the pack was
approaching the three quarter mark, she suddenly fell off, as she got in her
own head and lost focus of the race, although she split 3:47.1.  She
completely went out the back after that, finishing in 5:17.72.

Einat Gavish '22 was up in the 3K.  The pace was fine and the sophomore was
running a smart race, splitting the 1600 in 5:27.  When the opportunity was
there to go with the leaders, Gavish thought instead of acted, and did not go
with them.  Running in limbo, she slowed and the field she had run away from,
came back and passed her.  Instead of 82's, she was running 86's.  She fought
back a little with each group that caught up to her, but still only ran
10:30.06.  If she can focus and race in the second half like she did in the
first half she will put together a great race.

Katie Collins '21 and Jenna Melanson '20 were in the 5K, the last event of the
day for the women.  Both were in the fast section, but expecting very
different paces.  Collins was looking for a pace closer to 5:25 per 1600 while
Melanson was hoping for a 5:35 pace.  Collins was right on pace from the
start, but Melanson was out a little too fast in 82 and then 80 for the first
two quarters.  Collins came through the 1600 in 5:26 and Melanson in 5:30.
Collins was picking off runners as she went, not having anyone to pace with.
Melanson had a pacer in MIT volunteer assistant, Laura Paulsen, and used that
to stay on pace through a 5:36 second 1600.  Collins never deviated off pace,
running 5:27 for the second 1600 and 5:30 for  the third 1600.  Melanson fell
off the pace with 1400 to go, finishing in 17:34.55.  Collins ran a superb
time of 17:05.09.

Albert Menio '20 was the only field event performer at the meet for MIT.
Menio was in the 35 lb. Weight Throw and had his best throw on his first
effort, placing ninth with a 54-7 1/4 performance.

The first runner for the men was Ellery Rajagopal '21 in the 800. The race set
up nicely as the pace was solid at 27 for the first 200 with Rajagopal in the
top third at 27.9. The pace slowed, but not badly, allowing Rajagopal to
relax. During the third lap he moved up, positioning himself to take control
of the race as they hit the 600 mark in 1:28.5.  He took the lead before the
turn and pulled away to win in a big personal best of 1:56.60.

Benton Wilson '21 and Nisarg Dharia '23 were representing MIT in the 400.
Wilson raced first, again getting a favored lane in lane 5.  He got out well
in 22.5, but was still in last. He made a move to pass, but it was too late,
so he had to cut momentum and tuck back in.  Losing momentum at that part of a
400 generally ends your race, and this was no exception. For some reason he
was taking up too much time in lane two and three during the second 200.
Although Wilson ran 49.66, he is capable of much faster.  Dharia got out very
well and earned the break out of lane 2, but then he did not pay attention to
his outside, and let someone get the edge on him going into the turn.  Again,
this forced Dharia to cut momentum.  Worse, he hugged the rail on the
backstretch, and again did not pay attention to his outside, getting boxed in.
This again forced him to cut momentum, ending any hope of a fast time.  He
finished in 51.33.

Nick Duchatellier '22 was racing the 500, where the coaching staff was trying
to determine if the 400 or 600 was his best race. This meet did not have the
600, which tends to be more of a Division III event. He went out very fast
although being in a fast section still had him next to last throughout the
race.  He split 23.0 and 49.2 en route to a 1:06.12 PR.  Perhaps proving the
400 might be his best bet.

In the 1000, Matt Schofield '22 ran an excellent time of 2:31.47, but how he
did it was far from excellent.  Not accustomed to large, condensed fields, the
sophomore made numerous poor decisions with regard to moving up and staying
off the rail.  The lack of lane awareness caused him to change momentum quite
a few times. However, with 250 to go, Schofield blasted into second, running a
29 on top of his 2:02 to finish second in his section.

A few hours later, Sam Acquaviva '23 and Lowell Hensgen '23 did battle in the
3K.  The pace of the leaders worked out well as they ran 69 pace through the
first 1600 as Hensgen was in third and Acquaviva in fifth, splitting 4:36 and
4:37 respectively.  Hensgen took the lead after 2K, but did nothing with it,
encouraging others to move up. In the final lap Acquaviva stormed to the
front, pulling away to win in 8:35.30.  Hensgen pulled into second on the
backstretch and held it to the finish in 8:36.78.  This was a nice 1-2 for the
freshmen.

In the final event of the weekend, the 5K, Andrew Mah '22 was unfortunately
seeded as the top seed in section three, where it would have been a much more
competitive situation for him to have been in Section two.  Zach Johnson '22
was also in Section three.  Mah wanted 70's, but what he got was 71's.  After
a 72 at the 2K, Mah took the lead.  Johnson was running 72's, which was
probably a little too ambitious at this time of  the season.  Mah opened up a
huge gap, coming through 3200 in 9:24 and looking strong.  Johnson looked
solid at 9:37.  For both of them, the wheels sort of came off the bus after
that.  Mah was having trouble with his breathing, slowing to a 4:55 third mile
as the leaders caught him.  Johnson slowed to a 5:10 after the fatigue hit
him.  Mah finished in 14:58.17 while Johnson ran 15:26.39.  Both times were
respectable, but they can run much faster under the right conditions, and
certainly later in the season.

Next week, many of the distance runners will take the weekend off. Of those
competing, a few will go to the NEICAAA Championship at the Reggie Lewis
Center, while others will compete at Tufts University in the Branwyn Smith-
King Invitational.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



