


**VARSITY OUTNUMBERS ALUMNI 83-39**

December 16, 2000

Twenty MIT track and field alumni came through the door to the Johnson
Athletic Center on Saturday to compete against the young Varsity squad in the
annual Alumni-Varsity track meet. Twenty experienced, but slightly older
bodies, were no match for a greater number of somewhat younger and fresher
undergraduates. The Varsity won all but three events en route to a 83-39
victory.

The scoring was set at the traditional, but no longer used by the NCAA, 5
points for 1st, 3 for 2nd, and 1 for 3rd. Generally, the Alumni have been able
to win the meet or keep it close by gaining first place thus winning the
event. Bill Singhose '90, Ravi Sastry '99 and company were not enough this
year. Just two years ago, Singhose scored 30 points in winning 6 events, and
his supporting cast did the rest. This year, the combination of Marc
Washington, winner in the 55 and 200, Sean Montgomery, winner in the 1500 and
800 and Rick Rajter, winner in the Triple Jump and 55HH led the Varsity to an
unprecedented sweep of first places in all the running events.

On the high end of performances for the Varsity, Craig Mielcarz made good his
one event by clearing 6-8 in the High Jump. He had a couple of near misses at
6-9, but still made the provisional qualifying mark for Nationals. Qualifying
for the New England Division III Championships were Mielcarz and Brian Hoying
in the High Jump, Rick Rajter in the 55HH and Triple Jump, Kalpak Kothari,
also in the Triple Jump, Sam Thibault and Dan Kwon in the Pole Vault, Brian
Wong in the Weight Throw and Dan Feldman in the 5000 meters.

Alumni competing and scoring were:

Akin Aina, 3rd in the 55 and 2nd in the 200

Lincoln Bonner, 4th in the 55, 9th in the 200, 2nd in the 55HH and 3rd in the
LJ

Ravi Sastry, 6th in the 55, 5th in the 55HH and 2nd in the LJ

Neal Karchem, 7th in the 200 and 6th in the 800

Bill Singhose, 3rd in the 400, 3rd in the 55HH, 1st in the PV, 4th in the LJ,
2nd in the SP and 6th in the Weight

Sam Sidiqi, 6th in the 400

Joe Kowalski, 7th in the 400

Reggie Paulding, 8th in the 800

Mike Piepergerdes, 3rd in the 1500

Chris McGuire, 6th in the 1500

Terry McNatt, 3rd in the 5000

Andy Ugarov, 3rd in the HJ and 6th in the TJ

Steve Lefkowitz, 5th in the PV

Morio Alexander, 3rd in the TJ and 8th in the LJ

Pat Dannen, 1st in the SP, 8th in the Weight

Keith Bevans, 3rd in the SP

George Torres, 6th in the SP and 5th in the Weight

Todd Chamoy, 8th in the SP and 2nd in the Weight

John-Paul Clarke, 1st in the Weight

Brian Michon, 9th in the Weight

Others seen cheering on at the meet were Jesse Darley, Jim Garcia, and Karl
Munkelwitz, Don Rosenfield and Pat Sullivan.

Results can be seen at
http://web.mit.edu/hwtaylor/mtfxc/indoor/00-01/alumni.res.html

There is no question the MIT varsity is far removed from Championship form.
However, they appear to be will ahead of last year's pace, which netted them
the New England Division III title. As good as they appear for this time of
year, eight championship scorers, and two key freshmen missed the competition
due to injury, illness and other reasons. All of these athletes hope to be
competing in January, which will definitely make the Engineers a team to be
respected, if not feared.

MIT's team is in exams next week. They are not back for practice until January
8th when they prepare for the Beaver Relays on 1/13.



RETURN TO INDOOR


**TECH RUNS TO CONVINCING WIN IN FIRST SCORING MEET OF SEASON**

JANUARY 20, 2001

Despite a late bus, many injuries and illnesses, and the attempt to hold a
couple of athletes to one event so that they could race well at the GBTC
Invitational on Sunday, MIT ran away with a convincing victory over Bates
College and the United States Coast Guard Academy at Lewiston, Maine. The
score of 295.5 for MIT to 144 for Bates and 142 for USCGA was one that showed
MIT's depth as the engineers only won 6 of the 17 events. However, in every
event MIT was able to have at least of their athletes score.

In a meet format that allows for 8 scoring places in all non-relay events,
with a scoring order of 9-7-6-5-4-3-2-1, MIT scored at least 10 points in
every event. No team is allowed to have more than 4 scorers per event, which
means that the maximum point score for an event for a given team is 27 points.
MIT scored 25 points in the Mile for their closest effort at a sweep.

The Tech team did a good job of competing hard despite being assured of a
victory soon into the meet. MIT had 37 season bests, and 2 new qualifiers for
the New England Division III Championships. Andrew Francis '04, ran a 6.65 in
the trials of the 55 Dash to not only qualify but also move into MIT's top 10
all-time list. Rick Rajter '03, also qualified with a .3 second PR of 7.87 in
the 55HH. Other impressive personal bests were made Brian Wong 'G, in the
Weight Throw (51-4 1/4), and Mark Jeunnette '02, in the 600 (1:26.0). Mark ran
his first race in over a year, and ran out of the slow section to place 2nd
with his superb performance.

MIT has their biggest meet thus far in the season next Saturday at home. They
face rival Williams College along with RPI, Colby College, and Westfield State
College. The meet carries particular importance to MIT since Williams is the
only team with a winning record against them in the 90's. With MIT dominating
the rivalry in the 80's it will be interesting to see who will start the new
millenium off on top.

RETURN TO INDOORS


**MIT QUALIFIES SEVEN MORE FOR NE DIV. III CHAMPIONSHIP**

January 13, 2001

After a three and a half week break, the Engineers came back to Cambridge in
better shape than expected as they qualified seven more individuals for the
New England Division III Championships on February 16 and 17. The Beaver
Relays, an annual competition hosted by MIT, is a non-scoring invitational
with a full schedule of events including a pentathlon, shuttle hurdle relay
and the field events competed in relay fashion where the top three competitors
from a team combine their distances or heights to produce a team total. In
addition to MIT, other teams were Fitchburg State College, the University of
Southern Maine and the United States Coast Guard Academy.

To start things off , the pentathlon was dominated by MIT athletes. Rick
Rajter '03, and Craig Mielcarz '03, the defending New England Div. III
champion and runner-up, in reverse order, combined once again to go 1-2 in
this meet. Rick, finishing first this time, scored 3299 to easily make the
2900 point qualifying mark for this year's championship. Craig was close
behind with 3244 points and Tony Pelosi '01, also qualified with 2941 points.

In the Weight Throw, Brian Wong 'G, improved his qualifying mark with a 49-3
3/4 personal best to finish second. Also with a personal best in the event was
David Saylor '04, with a throw of 36-9.

The pole vaulters had a good day. Sam Thibault 'G, finished second with a jump
of 13-6. Dan Opila '03, improved his season best with a vault of 13-6 as well.
Opila's vault joined Thibault and Dan Kwon as New England Division III
qualifiers.

Mark Washington '03, ran 6.70 to finish second in the 55 meter dash and
qualify for the **** NE Div. III Championships. Freshman Andrew Francis ran a
personal best of 6.71 to miss qualifying by .01 seconds. Mark and Andrew also
ran personal bests in the 200 with 23.45 and 23.86 respectively, but the
performances were short of the 22.94 necessary to qualify for the
championship.

Yuval Mazor '02, was back from an early season injury to win the 400 with a
52.31. Another winner was Brian Hoying '03, in the High Jump. Brian jumped 6-6
for the second time this year. Sean Montgomery won the Mile run, but his time
of 4:30.20 was less than spectacular.

The Engineers dominated the distance events, winning both the 3000 and 5000
meter runs. In the 3000, Dan Feldman '02, ran a championship qualifying time
of 8:44.80 despite a head cold. Liyan Guo, '01, led a 1-2-3 sweep in the 5000
with a 15:47.72 performance. Albert Liu '03, and Ed Keehr '01, finished with
times of 15:58.30 and 16:04.79 respectively.

Freshman Brian Anderson had a spectacular day, winning the 800 with a
qualifying time of 1:57.76, and then coming back to lead the 3200 Relay team
to victory with a 1:58 effort. The quartet of Anderson, Montomery, George
Hanson '03, and John Biesiadecki '01, ran a 8:07.77, which will surely get the
unit into the fast section of the Division III Championship.

In all, Tech won every running event above the 200 meters, including all
relays and the pentathlon. The field events were not quite as successful with
only 1 victory out of six events. However, much of the strength in the field
events was held out of individual competition since they had competed in the
pentathlon earlier.

Next week, MIT travels to Bates to face the Bobcats as well as the Coast Guard
Academy in a scoring meet.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**Craig Mielcarz Places 5th at IC4A Championship**

**Sean Montgomery Qualifies for Nationals in 1500**

March 3, 2001

Taking a break from team competition and focusing on those individuals going
to the NCAA Championships next weekend, or those hoping to qualify, MIT's
men's track team took some individuals to the IC4A Championship at the Reggie
Lewis Center in Boston and others to the ECAC Division III Championship at
Boston University.

Each meet had its own highlight for MIT. At the IC4A Championship, Craig
Mielcarz weathered the difficult opening height of 6'9" in the High Jump to
tie for 5th place. Craig had two great attempts at 6-9 3/4 but was unable to
clear that height. Both Craig and teammate Brian Hoying will be competing in
the High Jump at Nationals.

Sean Montgomery put his foot down on the gas and pulled away from the field in
the 1500, qualifying provisionally for nationals with a time of 3:54.59. Sean
started from the rear, but after splits of 62 and 2:05, found himself in the
lead. He faltered a bit as he slowed to 3:09 at the 1200 mark, but then kicked
it in with a 45 second final 300 to win easily.

Also at the ECAC meet, Dan Feldman tried to set the 3000 record but was unable
to find the gears he needed at 9:50 in the morning. Dan settled for a 3rd
place 8:39.40 performance. Dan was able to finish with a 31 second last 200
and is optimistic about the 5000 next weekend.

In the 800, Brian Anderson and John Biesiadecki both ran 1:57.42 out of
different sections. John ran an inspired race but ran out of gas in the final
200 meters. Brian was knocked back at the start of the race and was never able
to get back into the thick of it.

Mark Jeunnette ran 1:07.19 in the 500 to place 7th. Mark looked very good and
is definitely ready for the 800 leg of the Distance Medley Relay (DMR) at
nationals.

Sam Thibault placed 7th in the Pole Vault with a vault of 13-10 1/4 and Brian
Wong threw 48-5 1/2 in the Weight Throw to end their indoor seasons.

Next week, at the NCAA Championships in Oshkosh, WI, due to insufficient
bodies and a conflicting time schedule, MIT will enter the DMR with Anderson,
Hoying, Jeunnette and Montgomery respectively running the 1200-400-800-1600
legs. Also competing will be Feldman in the 5000 and Hoying and Mielcarz in
the High Jump. The 4x400 relay will have to wait until the outdoor season to
see if they can qualify again, as will Sean Montgomery in the 1500.

RETURN TO INDOOR


**EPHS SQUEEK PAST ENGINEERS BY 3 1/2 POINTS**

January 27, 2001

The MIT Engineers and Williams College Ephmen once again did battle on the
track and the field to see who the best Division III men's team was in New
England. The two schools have won all but 5 of the New England Division III
Indoor Championships since the inception of the league in 1980. This battle
was won by Williams by the close score of 204.5 to 201. RPI was third with
118, Westfield State was fourth with 43.5, and Colby fifth with 36.

Once the coaches had submitted their entries, Williams was the clear favorite
with a 33 point edge. The MIT team they would have to make up those points in
the 55HH and Long Jump where they had not performed very well this season. In
addition, the 400-1000 meter events where Williams was so deep, would have to
be countered if success was to come to the Engineers.

MIT took the lead in the first event and did not relinquish that lead for 13
events. Williams finally took the lead with an excellent showing in the 200.
MIT, without their top 200 runner who missed the meet for academic reasons,
only scored 1 point in the event when Yuval Mazor came back from his second
place finish in the 400 to run a fine 23.72 season best. However, Williams
scored 13 points to take a 160.5 to 154 lead.

MIT came right back to deliver a solid thrashing in the 3000, led by Dan
Feldman's 8:45.48 first place finish. Dan's run was particularly impressive
since he had run a 4:04.56 1500 a little over an hour earlier. Tech's 21
points outscored Williams 12 points and retook the lead 177 to 172.5.

Tech Coach Halston Taylor, figuring his team had to win both relays to win the
meet, balanced them by moving 1600 relay anchor man Sean Montgomery to the
anchor leg of the DMR. Williams took the 1600 Relay with an excellent 50 flat
anchor to lead their team to a 3:26.80 to 3:28.79 victory and spoil MIT's
hopes of sweeping the relays. The 9 to 7 point victory brought the Ephs to
within 2.5 points. The DMR, led by freshman Brian Anderson's 3:09 leadoff 1200
(after his 4:05 1500 and 2:00 800 in the non-relay events), and Mark
Jeunnette's 2:00 800 leg to make up for his fall in the 600 when he tried to
pass on the inside, pulled out a 10:36.81 to 10:39.01 victory to extend the
lead back to 4.5 points.

The meet would once again come down to the final event. This time it was the
triple jump that was extending the length of the meet. With both teams
crowding the infield, inspiring their jumpers to do their best, Williams was
able to secure 2nd and 3rd places with NCAA provisionally qualifying
performances of 46-2 and 46-1. They also placed 6th, which was more than
enough to defeat MIT, who were only able to place 4th and 5th in the event.
The 16 points Williams garnered compared to MIT's 9, gave the men from
Williamstown the 204.5 to 201 hard fought victory.

Highlights for the Engineers were many. Sean Montgomery won both his events
with easy victories in the 1500 (4:03.12) and 1000 (2:34.71). Brian Hoying has
quickly become a multi event threat by tieing for first place in the High Jump
(6-4), placing third in the Long Jump (21-1 1/4), and third in the 400 with a
51.72 performance. Brian also ran a 51 leg in the 1600 Relay. Rick Rajter won
the 55HH with another 7.87 time, placed 7th in his first ever 55 dash, running
6.87, placed 3rd in the High Jump with a PR of 6-4, and jumped to a 5th place
in the Triple Jump. Other victories by MIT were earned by Brian Wong in the
35lb. Weight Throw (51-01), Craig Mielcarz in the High Jump (6-4), and Dan
Opila with a PR of 14-0 in the Pole Vault.

Next week, MIT takes their 5-1 record on the road to Tufts to do battle with 7
other schools. The meet should be a close meet between MIT, College of New
Jersey, Tufts, and Springfield College. Others in the meet are Amherst
College, Ithaca and Wesleyan.

RETURN TO INDOOR


**Engineers Run Through Final Tune-up Before Division III Championships**

February 10, 2001

In this day of needing to chase times and distances in order to not only
qualify for championships, but to also make the seeded sections of those
championships, MIT reluctantly joined the fray, splitting their team between
Boston University's Valentines Invitational and their own invitational.

When track meets used to feature head to head races in the finals of the best
runners to make it through the qualifying rounds, the need to go to the
fastest tracks was not as crucial. Now that many coaches want each
championship to be a chance for advancement to the next level of championship,
many events have gone from rounds of competition to final sections on time so
the athletes do not have to run as many races. If a coach wants an athlete to
have a chance of winning the race, that athlete needs to have a good enough
performance during the season to get into the fastest section.

With this in mind, MIT split their men's team between the two venues. At BU,
the primary beneficiaries of the banked track wer the members of the 1600
Relay team. Yuval Mazor led off with a fantastic 50.3 opening leg. Brian
Hoying, fresh off a high jump performance of 6-8 to qualify provisionally for
the NCAA Championships, ran the best leg of his career with a 49.6 400. Matt
Lehman who had earlier run 1:08.09 in the 500, turned in a 49.9 3rd leg to
bring Tech within range of the NCAA banked track qualifying mark of 3:16.87.
However, Sean Montgomery was still feeling the effects of the flu and was
unable to run faster than 51.5. Nevertheless, the quartet was able to run a
season best of 3:21.75.

Back at MIT, the Engineers were being led by upper classmen who were
determined to end their indoor careers in the championships, not with the
invitational. John Biesiadecki ran a superb 1:59.12 in the 800 to give MIT a
good chance of putting together a strong 4x800 team later in the season. In
the Pole Vault, Sam Thibault cleared 14-6 for a personal best to win the
event. Kalpak Kothari showed he is rounding into championship form with a 44-0
triple jump.

Other personal bests were acheived by; Andrew Francis '04, in the 200 with a
23.61 performance, Craig Wildman '03, in the 1500 with a 4:15.07 run, Adrian
Townsend '04, and Tony Pelosi '01, in the 55HH and the Long Jump with
respective performances of 8.44 and 8.57, and 19-9 3/4 and 19-5 1/2. All three
freshmen Weight Throwers had PRs with Marios Michalakis throwing 45-11 1/2,
David Saylor throwing 38-7 3/4, and Scott Bradley heaving the ball 35-9 3/4.

Next week, MIT travels to Tufts to defend the New England Division III Indoor
Championship against favored Williams College.

RETURN TO INDOORS


**MIT FINISHES IN A TIE FOR 13TH AT NATIONALS**

**5 All-Americas Lead The Way**

March 9-10, 2001

MIT Men's Track and Field team sent six athletes to the NCAA Division III
Championships hosted by the University of Wisconsin Oshkosh, and returned with
five of them earning All-America status. Scoring in two events, the Engineers
placed 3rd in the Distance Medley Relay (DMR), and 5th in the High Jump.

On the first night of competition, MIT's first competitor was Dan Feldman in
the 5000 meter race. Dan was seeded 6th and went out with the leaders
expecting to be among the top finishers. The fast early pace was too much for
many of the runners as they dropped back one by one. The first mile was timed
in 4:41 and the pace began to pick up after the 2400 meter mark. Dan came
through 2400 meters in 7:01 but was showing the effects of the pace. Dan fell
off the pace but stayed in position to place until the final 800 meters. Dan
finished with a 32 last 200 but it was too little, too late to finish higher
than 8th.

Thirty minutes later, the DMR toed the line. Freshman Brian Anderson led off
the relay with the 1200 leg. Brian took the lead at the start and never looked
back, running splits of 58, 2:00 and 3:03 as he handed off in a tie for first.
Brian Hoying was next with the 400 leg. Brian ran a great leg, taking the lead
in the final straight as he ran a 50.3 split. Mark Jeunnette took the baton
and cautiously led for three of the four laps before opening up with a 28 last
200 to finish the 800 in 1:55. Mark gave Sean Montgomery a 5 meter lead to
start the final leg. Sean was uncomfortable having the other competitors
hunting him down, so he slowed the pace to turn it into more of an open 1600.
No one else was willing to take the lead despite the 800 split of 2:13.
Finally, someone else pushed the pace with a 64 second third 400 and took the
lead going into the final 400\. Sean ran the final 2 laps in 58, taking the
lead with 100 meters to go, but was unable to hold off two of the opposing
runners in a very close finish. MIT finished in 10:05.09 thanks to Sean's
4:15, .21 seconds out of first.

Tech's next entry was not until Saturday. Both Brian Hoying and Craig Mielcarz
were entered in the High Jump. The opening height was a low 6-4, which was
cleared by both Craig and Brian, however Craig made it on his 2nd attempt. At
6-6, both jumped well and looked to be getting comfortable with the
competition. Craig and Brian made 6-8, but Craig made it on his second attempt
and Brian on his third. There were still 9 of the 14 competitors in at 6-9
3/4. Craig made it on his 2nd attempt to join four others moving onto 6-11
1/2. Brian had a very good attempt at 6-9 3/4 on his final attempt, just
touching the bar on the way down. Craig's 2nd attempt at 6-11 1/2 was very
good but not quite enough. Only one jumper cleared that height, but Craig
placed 5th due to his misses at previous heights.

MIT's 8 points tied them for 13th place. The best news is that all MIT
competitors will be back next indoor season to try and improve on these
results.



RETURN TO INDOOR


**MIT MAKES GREAT EFFORT AS UNDERDOGS**

**Engineers Fall Short to Williams in Close Battle**

February 17, 2001

MIT, seeded 46 points behind Williams going into the New England Division III
Indoor Track and Field Championships, lost by 10 points to the powerful
Ephmen, 121-111. Fifteen personal bests, 5 victories, 3 NCAA qualifying
performances, one varsity record, one freshman record and one meet record
summarizes the damage done by the Engineers.

As they are accustomed to doing, MIT led the meet off with a superb showing in
the Pentathlon. Craig Mielcarz not only won the event for the 2nd consecutive
year, he set the record by 125 points and qualified automatically in the High
Jump for the NCAA Championship. Nursing a bad hamstring caused by a near
collision in practice, Rick Rajter was unable to perform at the highest level.
Nevertheless, he managed a personal record of 3380 points while securing 3rd
place. The surprise of the event was turned in by Tony Pelosi. Tony, who was
seeded 5th, scored over 180 points than ever before, setting personal bests in
three of the five events and placing 4th to give MIT 20 points in the first
event. Freshman, Adrian Townsend did not score, but he did finish only one
place out of scoring and improved his total by nearly 400 points. Williams
scored 8 points with a gutsy 2nd place finish.

On Saturday, Tech went to work on trying to take one event at a time but
focusing on making up the points they were not seeded to get. In the Weight
Throw, Brian Wong made a huge personal best throw of 52-04 1/2 in the first
flight to lead the event briefly. The second flight had two throwers pass that
mark, and one more passed him in the finals. Brian's mark qualified him
provisionally for the NCAA Championships.

Brian Hoying was not able to quite get on the board with his best jump in the
long jump. He was only able to leap 20-10, missing placing by 2 centimeters.
However, what Brian could not accomplish in the LJ, he made up for in the High
Jump by winning the event and automatically qualifying for nationals with a
jump of 6-9 3/4. Brian's jump broke the varsity record held by Tom Washington
'92, and teammate Craig Mielcarz. Not able to get his mind or legs into the
game after winning the pentathlon the day before, Mielcarz was only able to
garner 5th in the HJ with a leap of 6-3 1/4.

The Tech vaulters did not vault very high, but they did their job by scoring
12 points with 3rd, 4th, and 5th places. Sam Thibault could not find his 14-6
form from a week ago, but would have needed 14-8 to improve his place. Dan
Kwon jumped to a PR with his 13-8 1/4 mark for 4th place.

Kalpak Kothari, expecting to score in the Triple Jump, seemed flat the entire
competition. His best jump of the day was not even enough to make the finals
in an event which Williams was able to win.

On the track, MIT was entered in every event except the 200 meters, that is
until they had to scratch both Junius Ho and Rick Rajter from the 55 High
Hurdles due to hamstring problems. Tech's attitude could not be altered as
they continued to set personal bests in spite of the odds.

Freshman Andrew Francis started his peak at the right time with a .13 PR of
6.52 in the 55 dash to set a freshman record and get 2nd place. Also in the
event was Marc Washington. Marc has been running 6.70 for the last month but
can't seem to run any faster. Once again he produced a 6.70, missing finals by
.01 second.

Yuval Mazor went out a bit too fast in the 400 trials and missed the finals by
.04 seconds even though he ran a personal best of 51.34. Mark Jeunnette made
up for Yuval's error by placing third in the 600 with a fine 1:23.72. Matt
Lehman, also in the 600, had a great opportunity in the trials but got himself
stuck on the rail, getting boxed in and unable to move on the final straight.

Brian Anderson continued the success story for the MIT freshmen with a strong
performance in the 800. A bit anxious, Brian went out in 26 seconds for the
first 200 when he had planned a 28. This early pace was probably enough to
keep him from winning the event as he was unable to respond when passed in the
final 300 meters, finishing 4th, but only 1.3 seconds out of 1st.

Sean Montgomery continued to struggle after a late season bout with the flu,
dying in the final 500 meters of the 1500 and barely holding on for 6th place
with a 4:01. However, he seemed to remember what it was like to run fast in
the 1000. Sean was passed in the final 400 meters, gave up for a few seconds
and then responded to place 3rd with a 2:32.51. John Biesiadecki ran 2:33. 81
for a big PR and 5th place. Biesiadecki had convinced Coach Halston Taylor to
enter him in the 1000, saying he would score and be able to come back in the
3200 relay. Coach Taylor had been reluctant to do so because Biesiadecki's
time had only been 2:35 going into the meet and winning the 3200 relay seemed
more realistic.

In the 3000, Dan Feldman never considered anything but winning. Dan had a 10
meter lead after 400 meters and only expanded it as he went, winning by nearly
5 seconds in 8:32.97. Sean Nolan placed 5th in the 5000 with a PR of 15:09.82.
Ed Keehr and Albert Liu also made the 5000 field but were unable to score.

Going into the 5000 and Triple Jump, the final events before the relays, MIT
was ahead of Williams by 8 points. However the Ephmen were able to score 12 in
the Triple and 6 in the 5K. MIT hoped to score 20 points in the relays but so
did Williams. All MIT could do was hope for a miracle.

The DMR was first. MIT was hoping to put some points on the board but did not
load up this event, preferring the 1600 and 3200 relays. The strategy seemed
sound as Tech was able to actually give the baton to anchor Liyan Guo in the
lead. Matt Yarosz had run a 3:14 1200, followed by a solid 51 by Todd
Rosenfield. Phil Loiselle was the one who put Tech in the lead with a 2:00 800
leg. Liyan was a bit nervous and went out in 29 seconds for the first 200 of
the 1600. This pretty much cooked the goose was Tech as Liyan struggle home in
4th place with a 4:38, 10 seconds out of first, which was won by Williams.
This gave Williams a 16 point lead.

In the 1600 Relay, MIT never saw an opposing runner after Brian Hoying took
the break on the opening leg. Brian brought the baton home in 50.3, a very
sound opening 400. Matt Lehman followed with a 50.4 leg to expand the lead.
Yuval Mazor made up for his open 400 with a 50.3 leg. Finally, Sean Montgomery
was able to coax his tired legs to the finish in 51.4 to give MIT it's 3rd
consecutive 4x400 New England Division III title with a 3:22.64 time.
Unfortunately, Williams was able to place 2nd to secure the Championship.

The final event, the 3200 relay was one the Engineers had hoped to win. John
Biesiadecki led off and while he did not bring the baton home in first, he did
run well enough with a 2:02 to keep his team in the race. Mark Jeunnette shook
off the fatigue from his two 600s and blasted a 1:57.6 to secure a solid lead
for MIT. George Hanson, the only fresh Tech runner, ran a personal best of
1:59.9 leg to all but secure the victory. The victory was secure because Brian
Anderson was not about to let anyone walk him down. Brian matched his open
time with a fine 1:55 split, bringing the baton in 1st with a 9 second victory
in 7:55.55.

Next weekend, MIT will compete in the All Division New England Championship
hosted by BU.



RETURN TO INDOOR




**MEN'S TRACK PLACES 10TH AT ALL NEW ENGLAND CHAMPIONSHIP**

**Distance Medley Relay Sets Varsity Record and Qualifies for NCAA
Championship**

February 23-24, 2001

The NEICAAA Men's Track and Field Championships, which is the combined annual
indoor championship for Division I, II, and III institutions, were held at
Boston University this weekend. MIT had a strong showing at the end of the
first day of competition with a 2nd place in the 5000 and a victory from the
Distance Medley Relay to put the team into 4th place at the end of the day.

Division III schools generally use this meet as an opportunity to qualify for
nationals since the competition is so good and the likelihood of placing among
the top 5 teams would be a rare occurrence. MIT's team, originally thinking
they would have the opportunity to place in the top 5, had to back off that
stance due to late season injuries. Nevertheless, with 17 entries, the
Engineers figured they could accomplish the goal of qualifying a few more for
nationals and score enough points to break into the top 10 teams.

Things began with the Pole Vault, in which both Sam Thibault and Dan Opila
were jumping. With the opening height at 13-6 1/4, both were a little anxious.
Both cleared that height and 13-9 1/4. Thibault made 14-3 1/4 but was unable
to break into the scoring. Both jumped better than the week before at the NE
Div. III Championships, which should make for a good transition to outdoor
track.

In the High Jump, the two national qualifiers, Brian Hoying and Craig
Mielcarz, were also a bit concerned about the 6-5 opening height. However,
both cleared it, although Mielcarz did so on his final attempt. Hoying's ankle
was bothering him, preventing him from maintaining his lean on the turn, and
ultimately preventing him from making 6-7. Mielcarz made 6-7 and nearly
cleared 6-9. Craig missed placing by 1 place due to his two misses at 6-5.

Brian Wong threw 50-4 1/2 in the weight, which considering the very slick
circle and the requirement to use a bagged weight, was quite good. Brian has
provisionally qualified for nationals but probably needs another two and a
half feet to make the national field. He, along with a few of his teammates
will get one final opportunity next weekend.

On the track, freshman record holder, Andrew Francis was hoping to improve his
dash performance. Unfortunately, he did not get his recently much improved
start, which caused him to play catch-up. Andrew still ran a very respectable
6.66, but it was not good enough to make the next round.

In the 1000, John Biesiadecki was seeded 10th. John ran a very smart race,
pacing himself well and staying out of trouble by not running with the lead
pack. With one lap to go, John unleashed a fantastic kick to move into 2nd
place at the finish with a personal best of 2:32.69, good enough to make the
finals.

Dan Feldman and Sean Nolan were seeded to run in the fast section of the 5000
while Ed Keehr was seeded to run in the slower section. Keehr did not have a
good run, falling back after 2400 meters and finishing with a 15:38.98. The
faster section went out fast with Feldman coming through the mile in 4:36 and
Nolan 4:39. When the pace slowed a half mile later, Feldman jumped in front.
Leading took its toll as Feldman began to tighten up, particularly in the
shoulders. Just in time, Wilson Perez from Keene State took the lead for good,
allowing Dan to relax and get back into the flow. With three laps to go, Dan
took control of 2nd place and started closing in Perez. Kicking a little late,
Dan finished a second behind Perez with a 14:42.89 to set a varsity record and
improve his provisional national qualifying mark. Sean also ran a personal
best, posting a 15:03.50.

Finishing off the first night, the distance medley relay (DMR) was next. MIT
squeeked into the fast section based on their early season 10:36 time. MIT
elected to hold relay members out of their individual events with hopes of
qualifying for nationals. The time necessary for automatic qualifying on a
banked track is 10:05.07. A confident foursome representing the Engineers
began the 4000 meter event with Brian Anderson in the 1200. Brian ran
comfortably through early splits of 59 and 2:01. In the final 400 Brian tried
to catch the lead runner from Williams but was unable to close within 3
seconds as he finished with a 3:04. Brian Hoying took over in the 400 and
closed the gap by about 1/2 second on Williams with his 49.30 split. Mark
Jeunnette was next with the 800 leg. Mark went out strong with a 55 second
400, but did not close the gap any on Williams. Mark finished with a 1:56.94,
still 2-3 seconds behind Williams. Sean Montgomery anchored the relay and made
up the gap in the first 600 meters of his 1600 meter leg after an opening 400
of 60. Sean settled in and let the Williams runner do the work as long as the
pace was quick enough. With 400 meters to go, Sean opened up and took the
lead, opening a small gap. In the last 200, Sean ran a 30 flat to finish in
4:11.97, winning the event in 10:02.74 and reaching the standard for the NCAA
Championship in 2 weeks.

Saturday began with the Triple Jump. Kalpak Kothari, competing in his last
indoor triple jump for MIT, saved his season best for last. Kalpak jumped
44-00 1/2 to claim 6th place and give MIT another point.

Biesiadecki was the next Tech competitor, competing in the finals of the 1000.
John went out with the pack and looked okay for the first 400, but then
quickly faded to the back. Perhaps he was overly concerned about his leg in
the 4x800 an hour later. John finished with a 2:38.69, out of the scoring.

The only events left for MIT were the 4x400 and 4x800 relays. In the 4x400,
the NCAA, in their infinite wisdom, have applied a 3.2 second penalty for
running on banked or oversized tracks. It is bad enough that this penalty is
random, but worse, the penalty for Division I in the same event is only 1.6
seconds. At any rate, MIT was hoping to run in the neighborhood of 3:17, a
time still more than a second out of qualifying but also a second faster than
the time MIT ran last year to qualify for those same championships.

MIT was seeded 9th in the 4x400, which put them in the second to last section
on the four lap track. Brian Hoying led off with an excellent 50.24, about .5
behind Williams College. Matt Lehman was up next, and he did his job well,
holding the same gap with Williams while running 49.25. Yuval Mazor made up a
little ground in the last home stretch of his 49.16 400. Anchor Sean
Montgomery, officially out of his late season funk, turned a remarkable 48.94
to close within .31 seconds and finish with an excellent 3:17.59.
Unfortunately, that time was .12 out of 6th place.

The final event of the weekend was the 4x800. MIT was seeded 3rd with a
7:55.55 performance, but everyone knew it would take a far faster time to
place at all much less third. MIT put it's best foot forward with a somewhat
embarrassed John Biesiadecki leading off. John surprised everyone with a
personal best performance of 1:57.40 to bring MIT in 3rd after the first leg.
Mark Jeunnette stepped up and brought the baton in even with the leader with a
1:55.52 split. George Hanson ran a decent 800, but could not get his
confidence to match his talent and faded to a distant 3rd with his 1:59.19
effort. Freshman anchor Brian Anderson set out to catch up to the leaders.
Brian ran splits of 27, 55, 1:24 and 1:53.26 to close significantly on 2nd
place but could not catch them. The overall time of 7:45.37 was more than a 10
second PR and was good enough for 4th place.

The 23 points put MIT into 10th place, the team goal entering the meet. Next
week, the team will send some individuals to the ECAC Division III Meet hosted
by Boston University and some to the IC4A Championship hosted at the Reggie
Lewis track in Boston.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**MEN'S TRACK WINS 9 TEAM INVITATIONAL**

**Ends Regular Season 13-1**

February 3, 2001

MIT Men's Track and Field traveled to Tufts University to do battle with eight
other teams, two of which (College of New Jersey and Ithaca College) traveled
a great distance to test New England track and field. New England was
represented by Amherst College, Springfield College, Trinity College, Tufts
University, WPI, and Wesleyan University. MIT was the only undefeated men's
team at Tuft's 2 year old track at the Gantcher Center, and still is after a
close competition with College of New Jersey (CNJ) 189 to 156. Springfield was
third with 130 points after scoring 18 in the last event, the triple jump. The
remaining order of teams was Tufts with 86, Ithaca with 70, Trinity with 42,
Amherst with 32, WPI scoring 21 and Wesleyan bringing up the rear with 9
points. Scoring in each of the events went 8 deep with points being awarded in
the following order; 10-8-6-5-4-3-2-1 in all events.

What was originally scheduled as a five team regular meet, turned into an
invitational with Tufts adding teams at the last minute without any
consultation with opposing coaches, making it near impossible to plan very
well for winning the meet. MIT put their best foot forward even though they
were 23 point underdogs according to the seeds submitted by the coaches. Not
only were the Engineers expected to lose to their New Jersey opponents, they
were going into battle with a very sick Sean Montgomery, who was favored to
win the 800, score high in the 1500, and give the 1600 Relay team a chance in
this event where they were seeded sixth. Rick Rajter, expected to place 4th in
the Triple Jump had to be pulled out of competition before that event due to
an injured foot. The team was in good spirits but a victory did not seem
likely.

Brian Wong threw well in the first event (51-3 3/4), the 35lb. Weight Throw,
but only earned a third place instead of his favored second place. CNJ scored
15 points to MIT's 6. The other field event starting at 11:00 for the men was
the high jump. Going against two jumpers from Springfield who have jumped 6-6
and 6-5 respectively, MIT expected to have a difficult time taking advantage
of CNJ not having much in this event. Brian Hoying jumped well, clearing a
season best of 6-6 3/4 to win the event. Craig Mielcarz, also clearing 6-6
3/4, finished second on misses. Rajter cleared a personal best 6-4 3/4 to gain
a surprising 4th place. CNJ only garnered 1 point to help MIT take an early
lead.

The first running event final was the 5000. CNJ was favored to score 12 points
to MIT's 0. Tech put distance star, Dan Feldman, in shorter events to hope for
greater point production, which left Ed Keehr, Liyan Guo, and Albert Liu to
take care of business. Ed wasted no time, going out with the leaders right at
the start. Guo and Liu hung back a little but still in scoring position.
Things only got better. Ed finished with an indoor PR of 15:18.13 to finish
3rd. Liu and Guo finished hard to place 7th and 8th with 15:37 times. CNJ
scored 17 points but MIT came through with 9.

The 1500, with Sean suffering from his bout with the flu was not looking good.
Seeded to only receive 2 points, MIT had little to lose, but this was an event
they were hoping would turn things around. Brian Anderson and Dan Feldman did
not disappoint with 2nd and 4th place finishes respectively, both running
4:00. CNJ only scored 3 points to bring the score to 51 for MIT and 36 for
CNJ.

The High Hurdles final did not quite go as planned. Rajter, favored to earn a
2nd place, and Mielcarz both made it to the finals but did not get out well in
the final. Rajter ran a fine time of 7.91 but only finished 4th. Craig, hoping
to finish a little higher, finished 8th. The CNJ hurdler finished 2nd with an
excellent time of 7.84. This is where Rick new his foot was injured. With Sean
not placing in the 1500 and Rick out of the meet, the team started getting
down.

The 400 and 500 meter runs went well for MIT with Hoying and Yuval Mazor
placing 4th and 5th respectively in the 400, and Mark Jeunnette, Matt Lehman
and Tony Pelosi placing 2nd, 4th, and 7th in the 500. However, CNJ won both
events, not letting MIT gain much ground.

The 800 meter run again saw Montgomery unable to deliver, however George
Hanson came through with a PR of 2:00.34 to gain a 6th place. Feldman ran his
second race of the day, finishing 8th with a 2:02.90. CNJ placed 2nd and
caught up 4 points. At this point, the team held a brief team meeting to rally
the troops and not let the opportunity slip away. The rally cry seemed to put
the spirit back in the Engineers as they suddenly started cheering for each
other. The results were immediate.

Brian Anderson came back from his great 1500 and totally dominated the 1000,
running a PR of 2:31.46. Giving support was co-captain John Biesiadecki,
placing 3rd and Matt Yarosz placing 7th. Tech's 18 points to CNJ's 3 was a
welcome turnaround. At the same time, the long jumpers went from 5th, 7th, 8th
coming out of the trials to take 3rd, 4th, 5th for a big rally. While the long
jumpers were getting the job done, so too were the pole vaulters. CNJ was
seeded 1-2 in the vault, but Sam Thibault would have none of that. Sam cleared
a season best 14-0 to place 2nd and break up the CNJ vaulters. MIT also placed
4th and 5th to come out of that event with a 1 point advantage.

The sprinters got the job done in both the 55 and 200 meter events. Freshman
Andrew Francis was not able to live up to his top seed, but did come through
with a 4th place. Marc Washington added a 5th place in the 55 and placed 5th
in the 200 with a PR of 23.33.

With four events to go (3000, DMR, 1600R, and Triple Jump) the Engineers held
a 23 point edge. This appeared to be a comfortable amount to some, but Coach
Halston Taylor of MIT was not so confident. Whether or not Dan Feldman could
come through in the 3000, his third event was yet to be determined. Without
Rajter and Montgomery, the 1600 Relay seemed to be beyond hope given their 6th
seed. The DMR seemed solid, but the TJ without Rajter put a lot of hope on
Kalpak Kothari.

Of course, as always, Feldman did come through. In fact he ran a PR of
8:38.37, good enough for 2nd. Sean Nolan assisted the Engineers effort with a
8:49.79 for 6th. This effort allowed MIT to prevent CNJ from gaining any
ground.

The 1600 Relay was not expected to do anything but run hard. Apparently the
quartet of Hoying, Muyiwa Oni, Lehman and Mazor expected more. Hoying led
things off with a solid 51.4 opening 400, handing the baton off tied for the
lead. Oni was unable to hold the lead, but kept MIT within 5 meters with a
52.3 leg. Lehman ran an outstanding leg, taking the lead down the homestretch.
The handoff to Mazor was perfect and Yuval wasted no time in getting out.
After a blistering 23.7 first 200, Yuval continued to push the baton around,
finishing with a 50.9 and maintaining the lead for a cumulative 3:26.23
performance.

In the DMR, all the 4th seeded MIT had to do was place 7th to clinch the team
victory. Jeunnette ran his first 1200 ever to lead things off and bring the
baton in front. Co-captain, Todd Rosenfield, ran a solid 400 to keep MIT in
front as he handed off to Hanson. George started off well but faded at the end
to allow the teams to close a bit. Ed Keehr was not supposed to be able to
compete with the milers, particularly after he had run his best ever 5000
earlier. Again, the engineers did not read the news. Ed took off, falling back
to 3rd at one point, but unleashed a vicious kick to walk down CNJ and bring
the baton in in 2nd place with a 4:30 anchor.

Kalpak finished things up in the triple jump with a 4th place 43-0 jump, 1 1/2
hours after the rest of the meet was over. Kalpak had two narrow fouls that
would have taken the victory, but it did not matter, the meet was over much
earlier.

Next week, MIT will send some of the top competitors to BU to face stiffer
competition than they will have at their own invitational at MIT.

RETURN TO INDOOR


