


  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Despite Record Numbers of Alums, Varsity Prevails

January 9, 2016

In the first team competition of the year, MIT hosted their annual Varsity vs.
Alumni/ae Meet.  Many alums made the trip to Cambridge to compete, but mostly
to catch up with former teammates, coaches, friends and just to embrace that
team feeling once again.  In total there were 22 men and 19 women representing
the "Has Beens" and quite a few more in attendance cheering them on.

The women's meet was quite competitive with the Varsity claiming the victory
76 to 45.  A few more competitors and the Alumnae would have pulled off the
upset.  The Alums took advantage of a Varsity squad that had some key
injuries, that had very low numbers in some event areas and was missing their
star pole vaulter, Cimmy Virdi '16, who was competing at the Akron Pole Vault
Convention where she competed in the Elite section, clearing 13-1 1/2".

Alumnae won four events.  Louise van den Heuvel '14 took honors in the 800
with a wire to wire 2:17.75 victory.  Preethi Vaidyanathan '15 took the
victory in the High Jump at 5-3 3/4.  Lauren Kuntz '13 claimed first place in
the Pole Vault at 11-5 3/4.  Michelle Johnson '15 won the the Triple Jump with
a leap of 35-10 3/4.  With a scoring format of 5-3-1 the victories only
accounted for 20 or their 46 points.  Ellen Liverpool '15 earned second place
in the Weight Throw, which was probably the most dramatic event on the women's
side.  Liverpool had won the New England Division III title last year, but had
transitioned to competing as a power lifter this year.  Jackie Vahey '17
placed second in that competition and was figuring it was her time.  Liverpool
was not ready to hand over the bragging rights as the top weight thrower, as
least not without a fight, which she started by throwing over 50' on her
second throw.  Vahey took a while to relax, but on her third throw she let the
20 lb. ball fly 52' for the lead and a new PR.  Liverpool came back with a
51-6 1/2, but could not reclaim the lead.

Other scorers for the Alumnae were: Ashley Wheeler '15 - 2nd place Shot Put
31-6 1/2, Julia Sharpe '09 - 3rd place Triple Jump 32-0 3/4, Michelle Johnson
'15 - 3rd place Long Jump 15-8 1/4, Abby Klein '14 - 3rd place Pole Vault
10-11 3/4, Veronica Szklarzewski '15 - 3rd place High Jump 4-7 3/4, Stephanie
Birkhimer '15 - 2nd place 60HH 10.59, Lauren Kuntz '13 - 3rd place 60HH 10.60,
Alina Gatowski '11 - 2nd place 5,000 18:41.38, Elaine McVay '15 - 3rd place
5,000 18:50.75, Alexandra Taylor '14 - 2nd place 400 65.00, Brooke Johnson '13
- 3rd place 400 71.53, Lauren Kuntz '13 - 2nd place 200 29.31, and Abby Klein
'14 - 3rd place 60 8.99.

In addition to Vahey's Weight Throw victory, she also took first place in the
Shot Put with a throw of 40-5 1/4, and then anchored the victorious 4x200
comprised of Hannah Chen '18, Bailey Tregoning '19, and Maryann Gong '17.
Nneoma Okonkwo '18 had a great day, winning both the 60 in a personal best of
8.00 and the Long Jump in another personal best of 17-6.  In addition to her
4x200 leg, Hannah Chen won the 60HH in 9.49, took first place in the 200 in
26.28, claimed second in the 60 in a PR of 8.07 and earned second in the Long
Jump in another PR of 17-2 1/4.  Maryann Gong '17 won the mile, leading from
start to finish in 5:08.59.  Mary Eccles '18 also led wire to wire in winning
the 5K in 18:23.76.  Makenzie Patarino '19 added a 400 victory in 64.85 to her
third place in the Pole Vault at 10-11 3/4.

While the Alumni on the men's side brought the numbers, the Varsity squad is
just too powerful this year.  Despite some outstanding performances by the
"Has-Beens", they were overshadowed by current team members.  In the end the
score was 111 for the Varsity to 11 for the Alumni.  Omari Stephens '08 was
the high scorer for the alums, winning the Pole Vault at 14-11.  Jordan
Mizerak '14 added a second place in the High Jump at 6-0.  Tyler Singer-Clark
'14 took two third places in the 60 (7.27) and the 200 (23.22).  Sam Parker
'15 also earned a third place, doing so in the 800 with a 2:01.26.

The Varsity spread the wealth as there was only one double winner and that was
Chris Sweeney '18, who won the 60 in an extremely close photo finish over
Michael Kaba '15 in 7.23 and claiming first place honors in the 200 in 23.09.
In addition, Sweeney earned second place in the 60HH in 8.68.

There were many good battles that took place during the course of the meet.
Perhaps the best of those was in the Triple Jump, an event where MIT should
dominate at the Regional level. Carrington Motley '16 was the first to put one
out there, jumping 44-10 on his second jump.  In the third round Billy Ruschel
'18 passed Motley with a 44-11 effort.  Ryan Prinster '18 added a 44-1 1/4 to
show he was in the mix.  After passing their fourth and fifth attempts to save
their legs a bit, the final round had some fireworks.  Arinze Okeke '17
launched a 45-2 1/4 jump to take the lead.  Angle Ecchevaria '16 one-upped
Okeke with a 45-3 1/2 effort.  Motley improved to 44-10 3/4 on his final
attempt, but Ruschel could not.  Remarkable marks from short approaches by all
MIT jumpers.

The Mile run was another one of those battles.  Colin Godwin '17 took the
lead, deciding to make it an honest race.  His first 440 was 64 and Aidan
Gilson '19 was right with him along with the rest of the field.  At 2:09,
Gilson was the only one with him, but Josh Rosenkranz '19 and Kunal Tangri '19
were just behind at 2:10.  When the pace slowed slightly to come through the
3/4 mile at 3:15, Rosenkranz moved up and decided to take the lead.  All this
did was wake up Gilson, who took over the lead and charged all the way to the
finish in 4:18.45.  Godwin seemed surprised by the move and did not respond
soon enough, but did overtake Rosenkranz to claim second in 4:21.47.
Rosenkranz earned third in 4:23.05.  Tangri closed well to finish in 4:23.93.

In the next to last event, the 5,000, another battle took place. Cooper Sloan
'18 threw down the gauntlet when he went to the lead with a 34 first 200 and
72 first quarter.  The pace settled a bit but Sloan along with Rory Beyer '17
and Dennis Maloney '19 kept the pressure on the old timers with an initial
1600 of 4:54.  The second 1600 was slowing so Beyer took over the lead early
on, but the threesome still slowed to a 4:58. The third 1600 really bogged
down as they started running 76-77 second quarters.  Maloney moved to the
lead, but that got Cooper moving who with 200 to go sprinted to the lead,
finishing in 15:28.68.  Maloney was second in 15:29.15 and Beyer third in
15:31.28.

MIT had many event winners during the meet.  Okeke had an impressive long jump
of 22-3 3/4 to win that event.  Trevor McMichael '19 cleared 6-0 to win the
High Jump.  Cody Bratten '18 won the Shot Put with a throw of 41-7.  Alex
Noakes '16 was the victor in the 35 lb. Weight Throw at 43-11 1/2.  Michael
Kaba '15 won the 60HH in 8.62.  States Lee '15 ran an impressive 50.69 on the
notoriously tight turns of the MIT track to win the 400.  Jarod Wilson '19 led
start to finish in the 800 to win in 1:58.31.  The quartet of Lee, Kaba, Luca
Cacopardo '18 and Wilson ran 1:32.67 to win the 4x200 Relay for a new meet and
varsity record.

Other alums who competed were Hazel Briner '11, Justin Bullock '14, Martina de
Geus '14, Matt Falk '12, Caroline Figgatt '11, Jared Forman '13, Kris Frey
'15, Kyle Hannon '13, Matt Jordan '15, Eric Khatchadourian '06, Nick Leonard
'11, Allen Leung '15, Maggie Lloyd '12, Pat Marx '13, Chris Masalsky '91, Eric
Safai '14, Nate Sharpe '09, Rebecca Stavely '11, John Thomas '15, Logan
Trimble '13, Cyrus Vafadari '12, Roy Wedge '14, and Jackson Wirekoh '13.

Others in attendance cheering on the fellow "Has Beens" were Kaitlin Allen
'14, Kirsten Aarsvold '11, Emily Cole '09, Josh Duncavage '13, Michael
DuPlessis '14, Kayla Harris '15, Joe Roy-Mayhew '08, Ben Schreck '15, Don
Shobrys '75, Jason Tong '79 and Benji Xie '15.

Next week MIT moves North to compete at Bates College against Bates and Colby
in the women's meet and Bates, Colby and Southern Maine in the men's meet.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

MIT Begins Intercollegiate Season Undefeated

January 16, 2016

Despite the snow storm that hit southern Maine, forcing MIT take an hour
longer to arrive, which included one of the bus's inability to climb a very
slippery hill near the campus, the Engineers competed well enough to leave
Bates College with a solid victory by both the men and women. MIT's men
competed against Bates, Colby and The University of Southern Maine (USM),
outscoring the trio with a score of 266 points to 137 for USM, 131 for host
Bates and 68 for Colby.  The women scored 162 points despite a number of
injuries, to 126 for Bates and 76 for Colby.  The men's scoring format was
9-7-6-5-4-3-2-1 for the four teams while the women's scoring format was
7-5-4-3-2-1 for the three teams in the meet.

One of constraints of the meet was that no more than four individuals from a
team could score in any particular event.  With a depleted roster, MIT's women
were concerned about their ability to win this meet.  The premier event for
the women is the Pole Vault.  Being limited to only four scorers was bound to
see MIT leaving a lot of points on the board, and that is exactly what
happened.  Led by Cimmy Virdi '16, who did not enter the competition until
everyone was finished vaulting, and who won the event with a new facility
record of 12-5 1/2, MIT earned the top seven places while still going from a
short approach.  Tech dominated most of the field events, scoring 85 points
out of a possible 114, and not scoring more was largely due to only having one
triple jumper.

Also sweeping the top four places for the ladies in the 20 lb. Weight Throw,
led by Jackie Vahey '17, winning with a throw of 50-2 3/4. Vahey returned
afterwards to win the Shot Put with a put of 38-6 1/4, leading her teammates
to a 1-2-4 finish.  Nneoma Okonkwo '18 led the long jumpers to a 1-3-4-5
finish with her 17-6 3/4 effort.  The other winner for MIT in the field events
was Natalie Alper '17 in the High Jump, clearing 5-2 1/2 for the victory.

On the track, where the Engineers have much fewer entries there were two
particularly dominant runners for MIT.  Hannah Chen '18 won the 200 in 26.27,
the 400 in 60.43 and earned second place in the 60HH in 9.43.  Dominating from
start to finish, Maryann Gong '17 took the Mile run in 5:04.53 and then
returned in the 800 to do the same thing in 2:25.02.

Other winners on the track were Bailey Tregoning '19 in the 1000 with a time
of 3:05.96 and Mary Eccles '18 in the 3K in 10:35.30.

For the men, their depth and quality left no doubt as to whether or not they
would win the meet, yet the excitement and desire to perform at a high level
were still present.  There were two double winners for MIT and they were
Michael Kaba '16 and Colin Godwin '17.  Kaba not only won the 60HH in 8.50 and
200 in an impressive 22.49 on the flat track, but also took second place in
the 60 in 7.20.  Godwin was a very dominant runner on this day, first taking
the Mile Run in 4:23.92 after a pedestrian start of 68 seconds for the first
400 and then the 1000 in 2:35.75.  In three of the four cases the winners had
tremendous support.  Kaba's teammates placed 4, 5, 6,  and 8 in the 200 while
Godwin's came through with a 2-3 finish in support of Godwin's win in the Mile
and 4-5 in the 1000.

Arinze Okeke '17 won the Long Jump with a leap of 22-0 1/2 and was held out of
the Triple Jump just for the sake of recovery in what will be a long season.
Billy Ruschel '18 took advantage of Okeke's absence and won the Triple Jump at
45-0 1/4.

On the track, in addition to the four previously mentioned victories, States
Lee '16 ran an impressive 400 with his 50.35 win coming out of lane two with
very talented runners in lanes five and six.  Aidan Gilson '19 led his fellow
freshmen to a 1-3-6 finish with his 8:41.24 3K win.  Gilson and Josh
Rosenkranz '19 (8:45.20) were trying to set a new MIT freshman record, but
fell short of the 8:38.39 record held by Allen Leung '15.

The final victory was one of the most exciting as an all freshman team took
first place honors in the Distance Medley Relay.  Nathan Munet led things off
with a 3:19.6 1200 leg, putting his team about 20 meters behind USM.  Talla
Babou ran a fine 53.2 400 leg to keep Tech within 20-25 meters.  Chris Mutty
took the baton, and despite not gaining any ground in the first two laps on
the 200 meter track, he was able to then close the lead down to less than 10
meters with his 2:02.4 effort.  Daniel Weiss anchored with the 1600 leg,
owning the race from behind.  As the pace slowed in the middle of the race,
Weiss prepared to take control, doing so with 400 remaining.  His final 400 in
65 gave him a 4:32 split and the team a 10:47.97 victory.

Next Saturday, MIT heads back to Maine to compete at Bowdoin College against
Bowdoin, Coast Guard Academy, Connecticut College, Keene State, Merrimack,
Plymouth State, Tufts and USM.  This will be a challenge for both the men and
women on a fast 200 meter flat track.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Engineers Light Up The Track to Stay Undefeated

Gong and Rosenkranz Shine in 3K

January 23, 2016

Figuring the outcome of the 10 team track & field invitational at Bowdoin
College based on coaches' entries was baffling at best.  On paper, MIT was
favored by ~30 points on the men's side and ~40 points on the women's tally.
The combination of MIT student-athletes exceeding prior performances and
expectations and many teams not matching their coach's predications led to a
route in favor of MIT.  The women more than doubled second place Merrimack
College's point total 203 to 90.  In the men's meet the Engineers scored 190
points, also more than doubling the score of second place host Bowdoin
College.  In both meets Tufts University finished a respectable third place.
There were only six scoring places per event using a scoring format of
10-8-6-4-2-1.

The spotlight event turned out to be the 3K.  In the women's race, this was
the opportunity Maryann Gong '17 was taking to qualify for the NCAA Division
III Championship.  Wanting to qualify for Nationals in the Mile, 3K, 5K and
DMR, she knew that this was likely to be her one shot and needed to make the
most of it.  At the gun Gong took off, opening up with a 76 opening 400,
ultimately deciding the outcome of the race right there.  Gong backed off very
little, coming through the 1600 in 5:11 and not slowing down from there,
running 77's the rest of the way to finish in 9:41.34, lapping the field in
the process.  In the men's race, winner Josh Rosenkranz '19, needed some help,
but used assistance to demolish the MIT freshman record, running 8:33.32.  Tim
Nichols '17 of Tufts and Matt Jacobson '17 of Bowdoin took over pacing duties
after Rosenkranz went from an opening 400 in 68 to a second quarter in 70.
From that point the pace gradually picked up to 69 pace for a 4:38 first mile
and then picking up more with a 67 penultimate quarter.  At this point,
Rosenkranz brought the wood, dropping a 29 final 200 on the field to open up a
nearly 10 meter lead at the finish.

In the women's meet there were many stars for Tech, serving up six all-time
top 10 list bests and numerous personal and season bests.  Hannah Chen '18
owned three of those top 10 marks, earning personal bests in the 60 Meter
Dash, the 60 Meter High Hurdles and the Long Jump.  In the 60 and 60HH she
earned personal bests in both the trials and finals to actually come through
with five personal bests throughout the day.  The sophomore star garnered 22
points for her team by placing second in both the 60HH (9.04) and 200 Meter
Dash (25.93), taking fourth in the Long Jump (17-5 1/4) and fifth in the 60
(7.91).

Nneoma Okonkwo '18 also had two personal bests and all-time top 10
performances, running 7.94 in the 60 Meter Dash as she earned sixth place and
jumping 17-7 1/2 to place second in the Long Jump.  She also took third place
honors in the 200.

Victories were plentiful for Tech at eight.  Jackie Vahey '17 thew a personal
best of 52-8 to win the Weight Throw.  Natalie Alper '17, despite doing
multiple events, tied her personal best of 5-3 3/4 to win the High Jump.
Alper had an excellent attempt at 5-5 3/4.  Cimmy Virdi '16 was not at her
best due to shin splints, but was good enough to win the Pole Vault at 12-0.
On the track, in addition to Gong's victory, Bailey Tregoning '19 easily took
first place honors in the 800.  Becoming impatient off of a pedestrian pace of
71.6 at the 400 and 1:47 at the 600, Tregoning ran a 33 final 200 to win
easily in 2:20.97.  Continuing the freshman theme, Megan Montgomery '19 won
the Mile Run in 5:15.81.  If some is good, more is better as Bailee Margolis
'19 led her two freshman teammates to a 1-2-3 MIT freshmen finish in the 5K,
running 18:46.55.  MIT began the meet with a victory in the first event (5K)
and they finished it with a victory in the final event, the 4x800 Relay.  The
quartet of Margolis, Gong, Clementine Mitchell '18 and Tregoning ran 9:41.94
to easily win the race.

The event of the meet for the women was the Pole Vault.  In addition to
Virdi's victory, MIT earned second, third and fifth place, with Sherry Wan '16
and Jen Tylock '17 clearing 11-5 3/4 and Makenzie Patarino '19 making 10-11
3/4.

The one multiple winner for the men was Michael Kaba '16. Kaba scored 26.5
points in winning the 60HH and 200, getting fourth in the 60 Meter Dash and
running the leadoff leg on the victorious 4x400 Relay.  Kaba ran season bests
in both the 60HH and the 60 at 8.46 and 7.17 respectively.  His 200 was in
22.61 and then he led off the 4x400 with a 49.9 opening leg to give his team
the lead against the NCAA Division III 800 champion.

Overall the men won nine events.  In addition to the two by Kaba and the
record victory by Rosenkranz, there were plenty of impressive first place
performances.  Marshall Wentworth '16 cleared a PR of 14-7 1/4 to win the Pole
Vault.  Billy Ruschel '18 dominated the Triple Jump with a big 46-0 effort.
States Lee '16 got the break in the 400 in 23.2 and continued uncontested to
win in 49.85, his fastest ever 200 meter flat track performance.  Another very
impressive victory, and probably the event of the meet for the men was had in
the Mile Run.  After Colin Godwin '17 did most of the early leg work, leading
the pace of 64 and 2:08 through 800 meters, Ben Bosworth '17 of Conn. College
took the lead briefly before Aidan Gilson '19 took over the reigns and buried
a 62 final 400 to win in 4:15.46.  Kunal Tangri '19 passed Godwin in the final
200 to place third in 4:17.48 to Godwin's fourth in 4:17.61.  Rory Beyer '17
took the lead in the 5K from teammate Cooper Sloan '18 after the 1600 and
never relinquished it as he ran 4:50, 4:48 and 4:54 1600 splits before closing
in 34 seconds to run a PR of 15:06.33.  Sloane held on for second place and
Nicholas Waltman '18 fourth for MIT's highest scoring event on the men's side.
In the 4x400 Relay it appeared MIT would have a race of it with Tufts
University as Kaba maintained the smallest of leads through the handoff and
Derek Barnes '16 barely held off their second leg as he ran 51.3.  However,
when Danny Newman '17 took the baton the competition faded  badly.  Newman's
51.1 leg gave MIT a substantial lead.  States Lee took the baton and buried a
49.7 anchor to give the team a 4:22.20 season best.

Other significant personal and season bests by the men were spread throughout
the team.  The throwers competed well which accounted for their personal
bests.  Alex Noakes '16 threw 45-10 in the Weight Throw, earning fourth place
and Cody Bratten '18 placed second in the Shot Put with a throw of 46-3 1/2.
Chris Sweeney ran a personal best of 8.53 to lead qualifiers in the 60HH, but
pulled his hamstring in the 60 Meter Dash trials so was unable to race in the
final.  Newman and Barnes placed fourth and fifth respectively in the 400 with
a personal indoor best of 50.86 for Newman and a season best of 50.89 for
Barnes.  Gilson and Tangri teamed up again in the 1000 running 2:33.03 and
2:34.57 personal bests.  Daniel Weiss '19 and Dennis Maloney '19 ran 8:48.62
and 8:50.91 in the 3K, both personal bests.

Next week, MIT will split their squad amongst three different meets.  Boston
University is hosting the John Thomas Terrier Classic that hosts the women on
Friday and men on Saturday, which is where most of MIT's oval runners will be
competing.  MIT will be hosting the Art Farnham Invite on Saturday where those
not taking the weekend off or competing at BU, will be competing.  The one
exception to that will be three multi-event athletes who will be competing at
the Tufts Multi on Friday and Saturday.  None of the meets are scoring.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Men Qualify Four to New England Division III Championship in BU Season Opener

December 5, 2015

MIT took four of the men's distance squad over to the Boston University Season
Opener with the purpose of achieving qualifying performances in either the 3K
or 5K for the New England Division III Championships and all four were
successful.  Continuing their training from the recently completed cross
country season and knowing they would need to qualify for both the 3K and 5K
this season so that their team would have more options come championship time,
the four were hoping to get one of these out of the way while they were race
ready.

Rory Beyer '17 was the first to make the attempt and was doing so in the fast
section of the 3,000.  Beyer was hoping for a well-paced 8:30 or so, but the
pace was too erratic.  The first 400 was a slow 69 and then grew pedestrian to
a 2:21 800.  Finally the pace started to pick up with a couple 68's back to
back and then the leader threw in a 65.  Beyer went with the leaders but the
65 was a bit too much off of xc training.  He was unable to stay with the
leaders, dropping back to the middle of the pack as others kicked by him.  He
rallied for a 34 final 200 to finish in 8:37.12, a personal best for the
junior.

The Engineers had three runners in the 5K, Brian Gilligan '17, Josh Rosenkranz
'19 and Daniel Weiss '17.  The qualifying time they needed to surpass was
15:30 for the New England Division III Championship and 15:24 for the ECAC
Division III Championship.  All three were in the slower of two sections, so
there was no way to know if the opening pace would be fast enough.
Fortunately the pace was crisp at 72 for the first quarter, and stayed that
way through a 4:45 1600. At that point the pace slowed so that the second 1600
was 4:54, almost forcing Rosenkranz and Gilligan into the lead.  Weiss fell
off at the 2K mark and was six seconds back by the 3200.  Gilligan did most of
the work at this point with Rosenkranz on his heels for the next 800 meters
before taking the lead for a short period.  In the final 400 both were passed.
However, Rosenkranz ran a 33 final 200 after having run a 5:02 final 1600 to
finish second in 15:14.76.  Gilligan ran a nice PR in 15:15.97.  Weiss faded,
but rallied enough to just eclipse the NED3 standard, finishing in 15:29.79.

The Engineers have an intrasquad meet next Saturday before entering a week of
exams followed by a two week holiday break.  They will pick up again on
January 4 in preparation for their annual Alumni/ae Meet on January 9.  Their
first intercollegiate meet as a team will be on January 16 versus Bates and
Colby at home.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

MIT Dominates Tufts Cupid Challenge

Team Has Mixed Results as Some Events Perform Well While Others Do Not

February 6, 2016

The potential problem with having such an amazing weekend of performances as
MIT did last weekend, and having the New England Division III Championship
three weeks later, is that the two weekends in between could set the teams up
for a let down if they are not properly prepared mentally and physically.
That problem came to fruition for MIT as some event areas in the Tufts
University Cupid Challenge performed average at best, while others were
focused and locked in for the most part.

The meet was non-scoring, which added to taking the pressure off to perform
well. Nevertheless, some event groups were fired up for the opportunity to
compete against top competition.  In addition to host Tufts, competing teams
included Williams College, Amherst College, Conn. College, Bridgewater State
College, Middlebury College, SUNY Geneseo, Brandeis University and Wellesley
College.

The best performing event area was the 5K.  The women were up first, sans
Maryann Gong '17.  The pace was pretty brisk with 83-84 second 400's.  Nicole
Zeinstra '16, Mary Eccles '18 and Bailee Margolis '19 were in the lead group
representing MIT.  In fact, Margolis, not too wisely, initially led the field
and set the pace.  The lead group stayed intact through 2000 meters, as they
hit the 1600 in 5:33.  As the leaders continued at that pace for a while
longer, Margolis pulled her parachute after 2400 meters, going from 84 to 90
second quarters.  Zeinstra and Eccles also fell off the leaders, but continued
to fight as they came through 3200 in 11:14 while Margolis was at 11:25. The
final 1600 was a 5:50 for both Zeinstra and Eccles as they crossed the 4800
line in 17:05.  Zeinstra had a lot more left than she thought, running a 39
final 200 for a 17:44.87 fifth place finish.  Eccles finished in 17:49.17 for
a new personal best.  Ciera Gordon '18 ran a personal best of 18:47.27.
Others running personal bests for Tech were Darby LaPlant '19 running 18:51.28
and Camila Thanos '19 running 18:53.62.  All, including Margolis qualified for
the New England Division III Championship

The men also launched into a very quick pace as the leader took the pace out
in 67 seconds for the opening 400.  The Engineers were looking for 70's
initially and hoped to race from there.  Dennis Maloney '19, Josh Rosenkranz
'19, Rory Beyer '17, Daniel Weiss '19, Matt Deyo '16 and Brian Gilligan '17
were all in the ballpark, coming through the 1600 anywhere from 4:39 to 4:42.
Gilligan fell off shortly after and Deyo was playing it a little safe as he
has only been running a little for two weeks since coming back from a foot
fracture keeping him out for two months.  Maloney and Beyer came through 3200
meters in 9:25.  Rosenkranz was back at 9:27.  Deyo was four seconds back at
9:31 and Weiss at 9:34.  The group slowed at this point to 74-75 pace,
allowing Deyo to get back in it.  At 4800 Maloney was still leading the MIT
contingent at 14:23 with Deyo and Rosenkranz just behind at 14:24.  Deyo
dropped a 32 to run 14:56.46, just nipping Rosenkranz at 14:56.63.  Maloney
was just behind at 14:57.05.

While Maryann Gong took advantage of a rabbit situation in the Mile, the men
wasted a great opportunity.  Louise van den Heuvel '14 agreed to set a pace of
3:00 through 1000 meters to lead Gong to a fast time.  The pace was just off
at 3:01, but certainly close enough.  Gong closed out with a 74 final 400 to
run a 4:52.57, the fastest time in the country for DIII, particularly on a
flat 200 meter track.  This is the third week in a row that Gong has run the
fastest time in the country in her respective event; 3000 on 1/23, 5000 on
1/29 and the Mile today.  On the men's side of things, the rabbit was set to
take the pace out in 3:06-3:07 for 1200 meters.  Colin Godwin '17 was unable
to run due to a potential injury. That left Aidan Gilson '19 to take advantage
of the opportunity.  After a slow, but negative split 63 first 400 with the
pace picking up, Gilson panicked and backed off.  While he ran a respectable
4:17 he did not compete and missed an excellent chance to qualify for
Nationals.  David Walter '18 ran a personal best of 4:24.39 and has a lot more
potential in the tank.

In the 800, Bailey Tregoning '19 was hoping for a competitive race, but no one
seemed to want to run fast after an initial 200 in 33 seconds.  The pace
slowed to a 72 middle 400 until Tregoning kicked a final 200 in 33 to win
going away in 2:18.72.  Jarod Wilson '19, fresh off his 1:52.74 last weekend,
had Mitchell Black of Tufts, the defending national champion rabbiting the 800
for his teammate, but just like Gilson, after a 26 first 200 he panicked and
gave up, finishing in 2:00.25.  Nathan Munet '19, in another section, ran a
personal indoor best 1:58.73.

As usual, the men totally dominated the long sprints.  In the 200, largely a
lane dependent race, Tre Albritten '18 won in 22.38.  Michael Kaba '16,
running out of lane three, was second in 22.74, Danny Newman third in 22.75
and States Lee '16 fourth in 22.98.  Earlier in the 400, Lee won in 49.84,
Newman was second in 50.13 and Derek Barnes was third in 50.32.  Tom Frejowski
'19 has come around nicely, running 52.76 to place seventh.

Kunal Tangri '19 ran a nice 1000, running even 30 second laps to a 2:30.81
third place finish.  Later he, Munet, Gilson and Wilson ran an all freshman
4x800 relay, winning in 7:52.42.  Munet led off with a 1:58.4, Tangri was
second in 1:58.7, followed by Gilson at 1:58.5.  Wilson first expanded, then
lost a 10 meter lead before closing hard to run 1:56.6 for the victory.

In the 4x400, MIT put together mostly B team runners, who ran extraordinarily
well to win in 3:27.64.  Luca Cacopardo '18 led off in a poor and non-
competitive 53.8, but then Barnes, Henry Tareque '17 and Frejowski all ran
51.2 splits to get the job done.  The women also ran a 4x400 Relay and just
missed the victory.  Hannah Chen '18 ran an excellent 59.1 lead-off leg to
give Tech the lead.  Gong, coming back from a 3:01.22 1000 after her Mile Run
victory, was only able to run a 64.3 split, but maintained the lead.  Natalie
Alper '17 ran a very strong 60.9 to give Tregoning the lead.  Although she
opened with a 28.7 first lap, Tregoning was losing the lead little by little
to a strong Tufts University anchor leg.  Stumbling in the final 50, Tregoning
gave up the lead despite a 60.9 anchor for a 4:05.50 performance.

In the field events the throwers led the way with best performances.  Jackie
Vahey '17 won the Weight Throw with a new personal best of 52-8 3/4 and Audrey
Pillsbury '19 threw nearly a meter further than before with her 35-2 in the
Shot Put.  Alper once again tied her PR of 5-3 3/4 to win the High Jump and
Isabella Stuopis '16 won the Shot Put with a throw of 40-9. Cimmy Virdi '16
did not compete at this meet as she competed the night before at the Crimson
Elite meet at Harvard where she won the Pole Vault in a new indoor personal
best of 13-3 1/2, the leading vault in the country for Division III.  Virdi
was the only athlete at the meet representing MIT.

For the men Alex Noakes '16 threw a best of 46-5 1/2 in the Weight Throw for
fourth place and Jon Fakkema '19 threw a personal best of 44-11 1/2 for third
place in the Shot Put. Arinze Okeke '17 won the Long Jump with a leap of 22-0
3/4 and Billy Ruschel '18 won the Trip Jump with a jump of 46-3 1/2.

Next week MIT will again split their squad, sending many oval runners to BU
for the David Hemery Valentines Invitational while keeping the field event
personnel and short sprinters at MIT.  The Engineers will also rest many of
their qualified athletes as they head into the championships the following
weekend.  Both teams know they are capable of better overall performances, and
will need the entire team to deliver if they hope to defend their New England
Division III titles.



RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

#### **

### Cameron, Wilson, 4x400 Set Freshman/Varsity Records - Eccles, Wilson and
Zeinstra Add Names to NCCA DIII Qualifiers

**



March 4-6, 2016

On Friday night of the final weekend to post a qualifying performance for the
NCAA Division III Championship, MIT visited Tufts for their Last Chance
Qualifier.  MIT performed quite well, setting numerous personal bests in spite
of MIT having a very heavy exam week.

Probably the best performance of the evening was delivered by Mary Eccles '18.
Still recovering from her 5K / 3K double two weeks ago and suffering from a
cold, the sophomore refused to think about what could go wrong.  Instead she
jumped into the fast field, starting off running 82-83 400 pace, which she did
through the first 1600 as she split 5:30.  In the second 1600 the pace slowed
a bit so she started going around people, moving up into the top six with a
5:36 1600.  The final 1600 Eccles continued to pass people, moving all the way
up to second with a 5:38 split and finished with a 41 final 200 to run a
spectacular 17:25.09 to move her to #12 on the NCAA list.  Eccles previous PR
was a 17:48.

The NCAA takes the top 15 men and 17 women for each event, as well as the top
12 relay teams.  Ties are broken by second best performances for an absolute
number per event.  However, this means athletes do not know they are in until
the qualifying period is over on Saturday.

Scott Cameron '19 set a freshman record in the Pole Vault, clearing 15-5 1/2,
finishing second in the event.  In the women's vault, both Sherry Wan '16 and
Jen Tylock '17 cleared personal bests as they both made 11-10 1/2.

Nicole Zeinstra '16, running the final event of the day for MIT, the 3K, began
a little fast in the first 200 but settled into the 78 second pace she planned
on. At the 1600 she was 5:10, just a couple seconds fast.  The second half of
the race was more one of survival, splitting 82, 83 then 85 before rallying
for a 38 final 200 to run a PR of 9:58.05, finishing third and moving up to
17th on the NCAA list.

Other strong performances were delivered throughout the meet.  Ariela Slutsky
'18 in the Weight Throw threw a PR of 50-5 1/4.  Carrington Motley '16
performed his season best of 46-10 as he won the Triple Jump.  Motley's jump
has him 17th on the NCAA list at the time of this article.  If two do not
enter then he would be in.  Tre Albritten '18 raced his first 400 ever.  While
making a couple strategic errors, Albritten raced with intensity, clocking
50.65.  The sophomore is ranked 14th on the NCAA list in the 200.  Should the
Men's DMR make it in, and they are 13th at this time, MIT would need a
substitute for the 400 leg as the DMR trials are immediately after the 4x400
Relay.  Chris Sweeney '18 bounced back nicely from his hamstring injury as he
finished second in the 60HH Final with a 8.29 PR.  Haley Strouf '18 jumped a
personal best 17-2 in the Women's Long Jump.  Matt Deyo '16 continued his
comeback from his stress fracture, showing the determination that earned him
All America honors last year in both Cross Country and the 10K in Outdoor
Track and Field.  Deyo ran a reasonably consistent pace, running 1600 splits
of 4:40, 4:45, 4:48 before closing in 33 to run a personal best of 14:46.36.

At the IC4A Championship held at Boston University, primarily a Division I
men's only championship, Jarod Wilson '19 lowered his own freshman record in
the 800 trials.  The freshman won his section in a fantastic 1:51.11 to move
him to number eight on the NCAA list.  The freshman will race the final on
Sunday, but that time will not count towards Nationals.

In the Mile, Aidan Gilson '19 raced to a personal best 4:14.38, but did not
advance to finals.  Kunal Tangri, another freshman, dropped off badly in the
final 400, running 4:19.06.

The Men's 4x400 were not only trying to improve their qualifying time, but
also needed to qualify with Derek Barnes '16 on the relay, as the previous
foursome included Jarod Wilson.  Michael Kaba '16 led off, and surprisingly
took the break very easily with a casual 22.9 opening 200.  Not challenged and
careful with his irritated hamstring he only managed a 49.3 split.  The
handoff to States Lee '16 was not the best as Lee has developed a habit of not
looking the baton into his hand, but the baton did not appear to slow down
through the exchange.  Lee was passed, but unimpeded as he ran 22.2 and 47.9
to put MIT in a good spot time-wise.  Derek Barnes '16 had an excellent
exchange.  His aggressive first 200 set up his overall race, which was the
best of his indoor career, an excellent 48.4.  The handoff to Danny Newman '17
hurt MIT as he left early, having to slow down significantly to receive the
baton.  Newman was less than five meters behind the lead team, but did not
gain or lose ground despite the slow first 200 in 23.7.  Newman moved a bit in
the second lap but overall did not seem as aggressive as the past two
weekends.  Nevertheless his 48.9 gave Tech a new MIT record of 3:14.43.  This
performance moved the Engineers up to number three on the NCAA list.  The
quartet is excited to represent MIT another time at Nationals, especially
knowing they left at least another second out there they can remove to lower
their time.

On Sunday, Wilson was back in action for the 800 final and he was certainly
the only Division III runner in the field, if not the meet.  He was in the
outer alley, which allowed him the advantage of cutting in more safely, which
he did in fourth place through a 26.1 200, he moved into third, making a
slight mental error in the fourth turn, but came out unscathed with a 53.6
400.  In the third 200 he moved well on the backstretch, moving into second
place as he came through the 600 in 1:21.8 (faster than the MIT 600 record)
and then moved well as he went for the victory.  Coming off the final turn,
although he was closing on the leader, another runner came up on him, nipping
him at the line for second place with both timed in 1:49.70--a new MIT record
and tying for the sixth fastest time in Division III history.

Next Friday and Saturday the Engineers will compete at Grinnell College, in
Grinnell, Iowa for the NCAA Division III Indoor Track & Field Championship.
At the time entries were made, the men will be taking Tre Albritten in the 200
(14th), States Lee in the 400 (8th), Jarod Wilson in the 800 (8th, as Sundays
time does not count), Michael Kaba in the 60HH (13th), Lee, Kaba, Barnes, and
Newman in the 4x400 Relay (3rd), and Arinze Okeke '17 and Billy Ruschel in the
Triple Jump (7th, 15th).  Their is a possibility the DMR and Motley in the
Triple Jump will get in.  The women will bring Hannah Chen in the 400 (12th),
Maryann Gong in the Mile (1st) and 3K (1st), Nicole Zeinstra in the 3K (17th),
Mary Eccles in the 5K (12th), Chen, Gong, Bailey Tregoning '19 and Zeinstra in
DMR (1st) and Cimmy Virdi in the Pole Vault (2nd).



RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

#### **

### Women 5th, Men 16th at NCAA Division III Championship--Virdi Wins Third
Consecutive Indoor Title



**

The NCAA Division III Indoor Track & Field Championship, hosted by Grinnell
College in Grinnell, Iowa, started exactly the way MIT hoped.  The first event
was the Women's Pole Vault, and even though Cimmy Virdi '16, the two-time
defending champion, took three attempts to clear her opening height of 12-9
1/2, she ended up winning the event with a vault of 13-7 1/2, a new MIT
record.  Initially she was blowing through her poles, but on her third attempt
at 12-9 1/2 she moved up to a pole that worked, barely, as she brushed the bar
on the way down.  At this point there were three vaulters remaining going to
12-11 1/2.  Virdi cleared on her first attempt, while Marissa Kalsey '16 from
Westminster missed all three attempts and Katherine Pitman '18 from Ithaca,
the top seed, cleared on her second attempt.  At 13-1 1/2 Cimmy again cleared
on her first attempt.  Pitman missed all three, giving the third successive
indoor title, and fourth overall to Virdi.  She then cleared an MIT and
facility record of 13-6 1/2 (4.13), also on her first attempt.  The bar was
then moved up to 4.22 meters, or 13-10, which would be a new NCAA Division III
indoor record.  On her third attempt, Virdi was over, just brushing it on the
way down, but nevertheless knocking the bar off.

As soon as Virdi finished, Maryann Gong '17 was up in the trials of the Mile
Run.  The plan was for her to sit in the back and let the race develop before
taking over and winning at the end.  Gong did not listen to the plan as she is
very uncomfortable sitting in the back of the pack.  She hung out in the
middle as the pace gradually picked up from an initial 400 of 79 to a 77 for a
2:36 880.  As the field came through in 3:50 at the 1200, Gong took the lead,
running a relaxed 70 for the final 400 to win her heat in 5:00.13.

Michael Kaba '16 was not expected to score in the 60HH, but he certainly came
close to making the finals.  The senior ran 8.24, his second fastest time
ever, finishing 12th in the field.

The 400 trials did not go so well for Tech.  States Lee '16 was up first.  He
has run faster this indoor season than ever before, breaking his own indoor
record, resetting it at 48.00.  However, his flat track performances have not
been as spectacular as in years past.  It turns out he has not been driving
his left leg on the turns, which is a key to success on flat tracks with tight
turns.  Unfortunately for Lee, Coach Halston Taylor did not realize he had not
been driving off his left until the 400 trials.  After getting the break in a
solid 22.9 he suddenly lost gas at the 300 mark, having the entire heat pass
him by in the final 100.  It became obvious on the turns that Lee was not
driving as he finished in 50.06.  Hannah Chen '18 was next.  She was obviously
very tense going into the race, pretty much forgetting that racing and having
the opportunity to show your talent is fun.  Her anxiety showed as she was
tight coming out of the blocks and never got better.  Because of pure fitness
she ran a flat track personal best of 58.35.  Neither Lee nor Chen made the
finals.

Next up for the Engineers was the Men's 800 Trials.  Freshman Jarod Wilson,
seeded eighth, but having just run 1:49.70, had the third best performance in
the field. However, since that performance occurred the day after the
qualifying period ended, the performance was not allowed for seeding purposes.
Wilson psyched himself out prior to the start of the race, tried to counter
that by getting out hard on the outside of the inside alley and ended up
expending way too much energy.  He ended up in the lead since pretty much no
one wants to lead early in the trials.  He slowed the pace, eventually losing
the lead after the first 200.  He got himself on the rail, was boxed in for a
little while, got out, made too big a move too late on the straight and was
rejected.  From that point on he gave up, jogging it in in 1:59.94. Not the
best nationals debut.

In the 200, Tre Albritten '18 had drawn lane five, a very favorable lane and
took advantage of it, winning his heat in 22.00, the fifth fastest time in the
trials.  The sophomore will have lane five in the two section final.

Mary Eccles '18 seeded 12th in the 5K knew she would have to take a risk with
the pace, running 82 second 400's.  The top seed, Amy Regan '16 from Steven's
Institute, took off at the gun, making it a race for second place.  The field
locked in to the predicted 82 pace, which Eccles followed along with at the
back of the pack.  The pace was crisp as Eccles came through the 1600 in 5:25.
Eccles moved up gradually through the second mile, actually running a PR for
3K (10:17) as she moved up into eighth place.  After the halfway point her
pace slowed to 85's and she started losing places after 3600 meters.  She ran
a great race, not fearing the eventual fatigue, placing 10th in 17:31.00.

The Men's 4x400 Relay Trials was next for MIT.  Seeded third, the goal was to
get in the lead and keep it, thus saving valuable time on handing off in the
outside lanes.  Kaba led off, doing a great job of getting the break and
holding onto the lead, splitting 49.6.  Lee lost the lead on the handoff, but
regained it in the second lap to give Derek Barnes '16 a small lead.  Barnes
ran a fantastic leg, opening up a 15 meter lead early in the first 200 and
holding onto a nice lead with his 49.4 as he handed off to Danny Newman '17.
Newman ran a 49.4 anchor, but got passed in the final five meters of the race.
The 3:18.12 was second in their heat, but third overall, qualifying them for
Saturday's final.

The final event of the day for MIT was the final of the Distance Medley Relay
(DMR).  Seeded number one, the quartet of Nicole Zeinstra '16, Chen, Bailey
Tregoning '19 and Gong wanted to stay close enough to the front of the pack so
that Gong would not have to do so much work that she hurt her Mile Run and 3K
finals the next day. Zeinstra got bounced back off the line at the start. She
then made numerous moves to no avail. At the end of a 70 first 400 she was
near the back of the pack and things just got worse from there. She handed off
to Chen after a 3:41.5 1200, putting MIT more than 50 meters behind. Chen did
not move MIT up, running 59.1. Tregoning has an amazing competitive spirit,
but not much control or patience. Her opening 200 of 29 moved her up in the
field but pretty much doomed the end result. By the time she hit the 400 in 64
she was within twenty meters of the lead. That was when the wheels fell off
the bus. Her final 400 was a 76, finishing in 2:20.7 as she fell to the back
of the field. Gong made up thirty meters in the first 400 (70 seconds) and by
600 was with the lead pack. Coach Halston Taylor motioned for her to stay at
that point rather than keep up her pace and take the lead. The strategy was to
save as much energy as possible for Saturday's races, while still hoping she
could outkick the leaders in the DMR. Gong came through the 800 in 2:25 and
the 1200 in 3:38 as the pace picked up. Emily Gapinski, a senior from St.
Thomas sprinted to the front and no one was able to match her speed. When Gong
cut her momentum it also affected her mentally, taking away some of her
confidence. She was able to run 4:50.7 but only managed sixth place in an
overall time of 11:52.11.

Saturday began with the Men's Triple Jump.  MIT was represented by Arinze
Okeke '17 and Billy Ruschel '18.  Ruschel was in the first flight.  His jumps
were very consistent, all within a couple inches of each other, but his 45-10
was only good enough for 12th place.  Okeke, in the second flight, waited
until his final attempt in the trials to jump far enough to make the finals as
the eighth best jumper.  In the finals he immediately improved to sixth place,
and then on his final attempt he jumped a new indoor PR of 48-1 3/4, which
moved him to fourth place and the first points for MIT's men's team.

Gong was now up in the Mile Run Final.  Her instincts were to just go out and
hammer the pace to take everyone's kick away, but knowing she had the 3K later
that day, better judgment prevailed.  The pace was honest, but not exceptional
as she ran 74, 2:29 and 3:44 through the first three quarters.  In the final
quarter, Gapinski again sprinted away.  Gong moved into second coming into the
final straight but was passed just before the finish as she ran out of gas at
the end.  Her final time was 4:54.67 for her third mile in less than 24 hours.

Albritten earned lane 5 in the 200, but was in a very fast section.  He seemed
to lack a little of what he had on Friday.  Coming into the finish he was
fourth out of four in his section, but finished seventh overall in 22.31.
This was MIT's first ever male All American in the 200.

Gong was back at it with the 3K.  The assumption was that Regan, the winner of
the 5K, would take the pace out hard in the 3K.  As tired as Gong was she had
to make a strong commitment before the race started that she would go with
Regan, and if she got dropped at some point she would continue to fight.  The
risk was big, but she was committed.  Sure enough, Regan started out with a 35
first 200 and the entire field joined the fray.  Gong came through the 400 in
72, right on Regan's heels and stayed there as the pace slowed to a more
reasonable 77 pace.  Regan and Gong hit the 1600 in 5:04 with Regan opening up
a slight gap as the rest of the field strung out. Zeinstra, also in the race,
had planned on picking off those who went out too fast, but with the entire
field going out hard she got sucked out as well.  Her 1600 split of 5:10 did
her in.  Gong lost four seconds to Regan by the 2400 mark, but expanded her
lead on the chase group to seven seconds with 200 to go.  Gong neither lost
nor gained ground on Regan, finishing in second in a flat track PR of 9:35.00.
Her time would have been a new NCAA Division III Championship record had Regan
not run 9:30.80.  Zeinstra finished 15th in 10:07.52.

At this point the women were in fourth place and had slim hopes of getting on
the podium as one of the top four teams.  Washington University of St. Louis
was six points back and had the top seeded team in the 4x400 Relay.  As
expected, Wash U won the event, dropping MIT to fifth, a very respectable
finish.

The final event for the men was the 4x400 Relay.  They were in the first
section of the two section final. Kaba led off, knowing he needed to get the
break and did so, coming through the 200 in 22.6.  He fatigued at the end, but
held the lead with a 49.6 as he passed to Newman.  Newman shot out, gaining a
quick advantage and held a two meter lead at the handoff with a 49.3 leg.
Barnes got out extremely well, expanding the lead with his excellent 49.1 leg.
Lee took it out hard, but was still having problems with the turns.  He faded
as he came in to the finish but held the lead with his 49.7 to give MIT a
3:17.84.  The next section had three teams that beat MIT's time, putting them
in fourth place. The men's 12 points were good for a tie for 16th place, a
very strong team place.

Prior to the meet, at the Awards Banquet, The MIT coaches and athletes were
awarded quite well.  Cimmy Virdi was voted New England Region Female Field
Athlete of the Year.  Maryann Gong was voted New England Region Female Track
Athlete of the Year and Arinze Okeke was voted New England Region Male Field
Event Athlete of the Year.  Coach Halston Taylor was voted both Men's and
Women's New England Region Head Coach of the Year.

Going into the Outdoor Track and Field season, the women have a total of eight
points (three for cross country and five for indoor track and field) towards
the Vercauteren Award for the top program in the country.  This total leads
the country along with Washington University, also with eight points. Which of
the two teams that finishes higher at the Outdoor Championship will determine
the winner of the Vercauteren Award.



RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Women Defend New England Division III Championship Title

February 19-20, 2016

The Women's Track & Field team traveled to Middlebury College this weekend
with plans of defending their New England Division III Championship.  However,
Williams College was seeded ahead by two points and intended on preventing MIT
from succeeding in their quest. As so many of these championships have gone in
the past, once again MIT and Williams would be doing battle.

The first event, the Pentathlon, was on Friday.  Natalie Alper '17 was taking
on the Pentathlon this year, adding it to her High Jump and Long Jump
repertoire.  Seeded fifth, Tech was hoping for a little more.  Still learning
the 60HH and Shot Put, Alper balanced those low performances with a personal
best of 5-5 1/4 in the High Jump portion of the event and then ran a 2:25.90
800 to go from sixth to fourth, giving MIT five points.

On Saturday the first events were the Long Jump, Weight Throw and Pole Vault.
The Engineers were seeded to score six in the Long Jump, 10 in the Weight
Throw and 20 in the Pole Vault, while Williams was supposed to only score in
the Long Jump.  However, they were seeded second and third for 14 points.
After fouling her first two efforts, Nneoma Okonkwo '18 jumped 17-8 3/4 to tie
the MIT record and move into third place overall.  Hannah Chen '18 had jumped
a PR of 17-5 1/2 on her second jump to move into fifth place.  The Williams
jumpers managed fifth and seventh place performances, pushing Chen back to
sixth, but the 11 point swing was huge, and set the tone for what was to come.

The Weight Throw was alive with energy from the MIT throwers.  Jackie Vahey
'17, seeded second, would have no part of settling for second, taking the lead
on her second throw and keeping it, throwing a huge PR of 54-8 1/4 on her
final throw.  Ariela Slutsky '18, seeded seventh, finished sixth with a
personal best of 50-3 1/4 to put MIT up three more points from their seeds.

It would not have been realistic to do better than 20 points in the Pole
Vault, and to just get close would be big for the Engineers.  Cimmy Virdi '16,
nursing a quadriceps issue, came in at 11-11 3/4, a height that only had one
remaining competitor in the field. Both cleared, although Virdi did so on her
first attempt.  After clearing 12-5 1/2 to win the event, she made some
attempts at 13-7, but did not succeed.  Sherry Wan '16 and Jen Tylock '17 both
cleared 10-11 3/4 to finish in a three-way tie for fifth, giving MIT a total
of 16 points in the event.

Overall, MIT was plus three points and leading by a score of 43 to 6 over
Williams.  Regardless how many points your team is predicted to score, when
faced with a 43-6 deficit it is difficult to bring the right attitude.
Williams College tried but could just not get it going.

With the start of the running events, Williams was hoping to bring that
momentum in their favor.  MIT was seeded first in the event, but that was with
a much different quartet, and Williams has much more depth than MIT.  Megan
Montgomery '19 led off with the 1200 for Tech.  She ran a fine 3:46.2, but was
passed by the Williams runner in the final lap, finishing about 15 meters
behind.  Kendra Knittel '17 took the baton for the 400 leg, ran a solid 61.7
and held onto second place, but finished about 20 meters behind Williams.
Clemmie Mitchell '18, running her first ever 800 leg, raced well, splitting
2:26.1.  Mitchell was passed by Middlebury, but finished only about 10 meters
behind both Middlebury and Williams, giving Nicole Zeinstra '16 a fighting
chance.  Zeinstra made up the gap by 300 meters as she split 75 for the first
400.  The pace stayed quick as she ran 2:31 at the 800 and 3:47 for 1200 to
stay with the two front runners.  Middlebury kicked at this point.  Zeinstra
made an attempt and then changed her mind.  With just over 200 meters to go
Zeinstra pulled ahead of Williams, opening up a gap as she ran 74 for the
final 400 to finish in 5:01.8, giving MIT second in 12:14.85.  This made the
score 51 to 12.

The next final was the 5K. Mary Eccles '18 was representing MIT in the fast
section, seeded fifth.  The Williams runner was seeded seventh.  The
determined pace for Eccles was 82-83 seconds per quarter.  The opening mile
was not quite at that pace as the leaders, including Eccles passed through at
5:34.  Eccles took the lead for a good bit of the second mile, but failed to
pick up the pace, running the second mile in 5:41.  Eccles was now running 87
pace and not at all looking like herself, though racing to the best of her
ability.  When the leaders made their move to win, Eccles could not respond.
Her early pace had broken most of the field, which meant that even at 89 pace
no one was passing her.  She finished fourth in 17:48.37.  The Williams runner
placed second to give them their first positive result, making the score 56 to
20.

The Mile was next, which pitted Maryann Gong '17 against many of the top
milers in the country.  Gong abandoned her normal "take it out" strategy,
instead choosing to let others set up the race.  This worked well as the pace
was honest through a 3:46 1200.  With 250 meters to go, Gong sprinted past a
Williams runner to take the lead, holding that lead to a 4:56.15 victory.
Gong had been seeded first, with Williams seeded second and third.  However,
Williams only secured third place in the race, losing eight valuable points
and putting MIT up 66 to 26.

In the Shot Put, the MIT throwers were continuing their dominance.  Isabella
Stuopis '16 gave it her best and finished third at 42-2 1/4.  Vahey had a very
nice fourth place finish at 39-10 and just missed a big one on her last
attempt.  The big surprise was Slutsky throwing a two foot plus PR of 39-8 1/2
to sneak in a big sixth place, giving MIT 14 more points and putting Tech up
80 to 26.

Williams was hoping for big points from the High Jump and Triple Jump.  This
was sort of the last chance for them to make a comeback, but it was not to be.
Seeded to score 16 points to MIT's three in the High Jump, Katherine Prutz '18
came through with a PR of 5-2 1/4 on her first attempt to earn a tie for fifth
place and Alper secured seventh place for 5.5 points to Williams 12 points.
Seeded to score 10 in the Triple Jump, Williams finished fourth and fifth for
nine points.  The score was now 85.5 to 47.

Back on the track, Hannah Chen had earned a spot in the 60HH Final.  She hit
the first hurdle hard, was out of sync the  remainder of the race, finishing
seventh in 9.38.  Williams, only seeded to place sixth, earned third place.
Chen came right back in the 400 to place fifth in 59.51 out of lane one, a
very difficult feat.

In the 60 Meter Dash Final, Okonkwo had qualified out of the trials with a
personal best of 7.89.  With a much better start in the final, she finished in
a new MIT record of 7.85 to place seventh, less than a tenth of a second out
of third.

Williams had a runner who was seeded first in the 800, but she had already
placed third in the Mile, while Bailey Tregoning '19 was fresh as the number
two seed.  At the start, a senior from Springfield who had only run a previous
best of 2:18 took the pace out hard in 31.  Tregoning was out well at 33 and
along with a runner from Wheaton, was well ahead of the rest of the field.  At
66 for the 400, Tregoning was still well behind the Springfield runner who
came through in 63 seconds.  Tregoning added a 34 200 to come through in 1:41,
but could not close on the Springfield runner.  Moving into second with 200 to
go, Tregoning finished in 2:16.18 to match her seed.  The Williams runner fell
back to seventh, pretty much sealing the outcome of the meet.

Gong was back in the 1000, seeded fifth, going up against the undefeated
Isabella Franz '17 from Connecticut College.  Gong settled in behind the front
running Franz who hit the 400 in 71 and 800 in 2:22.  Gong tried to take the
lead in the final 200 but just could not do so, finishing in second in
2:57.12, to Franz's 2:56.56.

In the 200, Chen was back and this time had a favorable lane.  She placed
third in the seeded section in 25.99, but was beaten by two others from other
sections, to give her fifth place overall.  The sophomore earned 13 points for
Tech.

Perhaps the best race of the day for MIT was the 3K.  Zeinstra returned from
her mile leg of the DMR, to see if she could ice the meet for MIT. Continuing
to stay ahead by about 40 points, with Williams having the top two seeds in
the 3K, Zeinstra, seeded 12th, wanted to keep Williams at bay.  The pace was
consistent, but neither very fast, nor slow, running 82's for a 5:28 first
mile.  Zeinstra led a breakaway of three with laps to go, but with two
remaining the Middlebury runner upped the pace to open a 10 meter lead.
Zeinstra fell back to third and had seemingly given up, falling behind by over
15 meters.  Then with just over 100 meters to go she took off, moved into
second place with 60 to go and took the lead 10 meters from the finish to win
in 10:08.10.

MIT backed off the 4x400 Relay and pulled their 4x800 Relay, which had a
strong chance of winning.  The final score was MIT 123.5, Williams 93.83 and
host Middlebury with 82 points.  In all, 30 teams scored in the meet.

Next weekend, with the NEICAAA Championship at BU, a New England Championship
featuring Divisions I, II and III teams in New England, MIT will mostly rest,
but will compete a few of those with a chance to qualify for the NCAA Division
III Championship in three weeks.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

#### **

### Kaba, Okeke Come Up Big as Tech Holds on For Victory Over Rival Williams
College

**

####



MIT entered the New England Division III Championship in a familiar spot of
late-as the favorite to win.  Playing host to over 30 institutions over two
days, MIT knew that overcoming both Williams and Tufts would be a difficult,
but necessary challenge to earning its fourth straight indoor title.  However,
Williams would prove to be a much greater opponent than originally expected.

On Friday, Tech got started off with Luke Gray '18 in Day One of the
Heptathlon.  Gray, who was seeded 4th of 10 competitors, came out strong,
notching a personal best in the 60m, running a time of 7.68.  Despite this
personal record, the field proved quite capable, leaving him in 10th place
with the Long Jump up next.  Not typically a strong event for him but
improving of late, Gray looked to move up in the rankings with a respectable
Long Jump performance.  Unfortunately, his improvement did not transfer to
competition and Gray lost more ground, jumping a disappointing 17'11" to
finish last in the event.  With two events remaining on the first day of
competition, Gray needed to put together two personal bests to keep him in the
competition.  In the Shot Put, Gray put forth a strong effort, improving his
personal best and throwing a distance of 38'7 ¼", winning the event and moving
him into 7th position entering the High Jump, the final event for Day One.
Despite early inconsistency in his approach, Gray was able to put together
another personal best performance in the High Jump with a jump of 5'5".  In
all, Gray had 3 PR's out of 4 events, positioning him in 7th place after Day
One.  What was perhaps the biggest surprise, however, was Williams' Tommy
Riley who was stepping up in all of his events and was in 3rd place after four
events, performing well above his 9th place seed.

Day Two of the Heptathlon proved to be more fruitful for Gray.  Starting in
the 60m High Hurdles, Gray ran within a tenth of a second of his best, with a
time of 9.26.  In the Pole Vault, perhaps his strongest event and many others'
weakest, Gray was able to vault a height of 12'7½" making up a rather large
point margin and catapulting him up to 5th place with the 1000m as his encore.
Gray, looking for any opening to move up in the standings, performed with
passion, fighting hard until the finish to run a 2:50.96, placing 4th in the
event and moving him up to 4th place overall.  Over the two days, Gray scored
a personal best 4,247 points, which was 119 points more than his previous
best.  Williams' Tommy Riley scored 4474 for a 2nd place finish and 8 points
that they were not seeded to score.  Perhaps Riley was the catalyst for
Williams College, who performed brilliantly, out-performing their seeds and
making it a very exciting championship.

On Saturday, the rest of the Tech team got started in the Long Jump, an event
that proved incredibly important to the outcome of the meet.  After three
disappointing jumps from Carrington Motley '16 in the first flight, Arinze
Okeke '17 and Luca Cacopardo '18 looked to get Tech some early points.  Seeded
3rd and 7th, Okeke and Cacopardo performed at their best when it mattered the
most.  Cacopardo had a very strong series of jumps, finishing with a 5th place
performance and a personal best jump of 21'10 ¼".  Okeke, however, would not
be denied the top spot, beating his seed by two places with a second round
leap of 22'11 ¾" to win the event by 15cm.  Once the distance of the jump was
announced, the energy seemed to leave the other jumpers, as they now needed to
chase this big mark.  The jump had the opposite effect on the Tech performers.

Shortly after Okeke's big win in the Long Jump, Michael Kaba '16 and Chris
Sweeney '18 took to the 60m High Hurdles, an event that proved very helpful in
Tech's bid for another championship.  In the trials, Sweeney, who two days
earlier was a potential scratch because of a hamstring injury, broke the MIT
school record formally held by Kaba, running a smoking fast 8.34 to secure his
spot in the final.  Kaba also ran a very smooth race, hurdling his way to an
8.43, which at the time was a season best for him.  Going into the final,
Sweeney and Kaba were seeded 3rd and 5th, respectively.  In what was an
unusually fast final, both Kaba and Sweeney burst out of the blocks to
challenge Bridgewater State's Connor Murtagh, the top seeded hurdler in New
England.  In a very competitive battle, it was Kaba who wrestled away the top
spot from Murtagh, blazing a new MIT school record time of 8.20, while Sweeney
ran an 8.35 to come away with 4th.

In the Mile, Aiden Gilson '19 came in as the top-seeded runner.  After Tech's
Colin Godwin '17 was scratched earlier in the week due to injury, Gilson's
performance was an ever-important one for MIT.  Gilson dealt with the pressure
brilliantly and ran a very intelligent race from the start.  Understanding
that it was a one section final, Gilson was able to set the pace for the race,
not worrying about time and focusing solely on place.  Immediately after the
gun, Gilson got in 2nd place on the outer half of lane one and controlled the
race from there. Even as his competitors tried to surge with two laps to go,
Gilson pounced on them and beat them to it, never relinquishing his lead.
Gilson was able to close out his championship race in a 57-second last 400m,
finishing with a final time of 4:25.20.

Coming into the meet, MIT had its sights set on continuing its tradition of
strong 400m performances, looking to out-perform its projected 15 points in
what proved to be a very competitive field.  In the 3rd section, MIT's Danny
Newman '17 and Derek Barnes '16 looked to pick up some unseeded points.
Unfortunately, Newman and Barnes were the last to the break, getting caught in
traffic and spent the rest of the race trying to make up lost ground from the
outside.  In the fast section, both Kaba and top-seeded States Lee '16 looked
to score big.  As Kaba and Lee came to the break, Kaba accelerated and gained
great position, whereas Lee was caught in traffic.  Kaba ran a smooth 23.1
first 200m while Lee ran slightly slower and was bumped to the outside.  Both
fought hard, but in the end Kaba came up victorious, winning his second event
of the day in a time of 49.85, holding off Southern Maine's Jeremy Collins.
Lee held on to finish 6th in a time of 50.57.

Next up on the track for MIT, was the 800m run.  Yet another freshman, Jarod
Wilson '19 was asked to step up in hopes of Tech winning a title.  Wilson, who
came into the competition as the 3rd seed, had some very stiff competition in
two-time National Champion Mitchell Black of Tufts and Jacob Ellis of Bowdoin.
Black and Ellis both took the race out in a very solid pace, and at the time,
it seemed like only Wilson was courageous enough to go with them.  After a
56-second opening 400m, the race wore on and both Black and Ellis began to gap
Wilson.  It seemed that Wilson would be able to hold on to a 3rd place finish,
however, this would not be the case, as Wilson slowed down through the finish
line while Jack Pinho of Springfield dove over the finish line just ahead of
him.  Pinho's time of 1:53.90 was just four hundredths of a second faster than
Wilson who finished in 1:53.94, a personal best.

Following the 800m, still another Tech freshman, Kunal Tangri '19 looked to
pick up some important points in the 1000m, an event  in which he was seeded
third.  In the first attempted start, Tangri was tripped up hard within his
first three steps, prompting a restart and perhaps some nervous anxiety on the
part of Tangri. In the restart Tangri got out in 4th place in a very fast
race.  Tangri fought hard, going through the 800m in 2:01, but was overcome by
Serrao of Middlebury and Roy of WPI in the last 200m, leading to a 6th place
finish in a time of 2:32.21.

Back to the sprints, Tech sprinters Kaba, Tre Albritten '18, Richard Lu '16
and Newman aimed to repeat the big performance from last year's meet and sweep
the top spots in the 200m.  In typical Tech fashion, the sprinters came ready
to bring it, scoring from multiple sections of the 5-section event.  Lu proved
that seed doesn't mean everything, running a remarkable time of 22.99 to take
8th from the 3rd section.  Next, Newman redeemed himself for his poor 400m
performance and ran a blazing time of 22.64, good enough to take 4th from the
4th section.  Finally, the 5th and fastest section had both Albritten and
Kaba, the top two seeded sprinters.  The race was a fast one and competitive
from the start.  By the finish, Kaba was once again the victor, winning his
third event of the day in a time of 22.28, narrowly edging Ofori-Atta of
Williams.  Albritten went on to finish 5th with a time 22.64, finishing two
thousandths of a second behind Newman.  In all, the 200m brought Tech 20
points to keep the lead over surging Williams.

While the 200m was finishing up, big things were brewing at the sand pit as
Tech's army of Triple Jumpers were making a lot of noise.  After a big
personal best jump of 45'2 ½" from sophomore Ryan Prinster '18 in the first
flight, the second flight, with four more Tech jumpers proceeded to own the
day.  William Ruschel '18 got Tech started off with the first 14-meter jump of
the day, putting him in the early lead.  The third round proved to be a big
one for MIT, as Bowdoin's Bryan Greenberg nearly matched Ruschel's jump.  Tech
jumpers, Okeke and Ruschel did not seem to approve of the performance and
responded with even bigger attempts, jumping 46'9" and 46'6", respectively,
and putting them in first and second.  Following the first two flights, Tech
had all five jumpers in the final, sitting 1st, 2nd, 4th, 5th, and 8th.  In
the final, only Motley was able to improve, as Bowdoin's Greenberg could not
match both Okeke and Ruschel's jumps.   When the sand settled, the Tech
jumpers scored 27 points, giving the horizontal jumps a grand total of 41
points for the meet.

While Tech was having fun at the sand pit, Williams was quietly surging back
into the team points.  In the 3K, Tech runner Josh Rosenkranz finished 9th in
a time of 8:46.38 and was unable to pick up points.  Meanwhile, Williams'
Mazaheri, Hale, and Simpson picked up 21 points, finishing first, second and
sixth respectively.  In the 5K, Tech picked up four hard-fought points from
freshman, Dennis Maloney '19, who ran a solid time of 15:02.89.  However,
Cotton, Colaizzi, and Decker of Williams answered with 17 more of there own.
It was evident that Williams was not going away.

In the Pole Vault, Tech vaulters Marshall Wentworth '16 and Scott Cameron '19
were needed to perform at personal best levels to score points for MIT and
keep them in the points race.  In the end, it was another freshman, Cameron,
who answered the bell, tying a personal best and taking 5th behind Williams'
Pierceson Brown.  Following the Pole Vault, Tech clung to a narrow lead with
the Distance Medley Relay up next.

In the DMR, Williams put down a solid time of 10:26.54 from the first section
of which MIT would have to beat to build their lead.  MIT failed to do so, as
the second section became more of a race for place rather than time and
forgetting about Williams' first section performance.  Tech runner David
Walter '18 got out to 6th place for the first 400m and moved up throughout to
put MIT in a close group of five runners. Tom Frejowski '19 ran a steady
52-second 400m leg to keep Tech in range while passing the baton to Henry
Tareque '17.  Tareque ran an outstanding 800m leg of 1:59 to give MIT a small
lead heading into Gilson's final 1600m leg. It seemed that no one wanted to
push the pace and there were still five teams together with Gilson leading
with two laps to go. Unfortunately, the slowed pace proved to be Tech's
undoing as Gilson ran a 4:25 leg to cross the line 3rd in the section with a
time of 10:31.28.  MIT finished fourth, while Williams won from the slow
section.  Following the DMR, Tech was holding on by a miniscule 3-point margin
with the 4x400m and 4x800m relays to go.

The 4x400m proved to be the most exciting event of the evening and held
promise for Williams' come back.  Despite the trend of point grabbing that
Williams had set, Tech was not phased by the gravity of the situation and
performed at its best when it was absolutely needed.  In the final section of
the 4x400m, Tech and Williams squared off against one another.  Both teams
knew exactly how important the event was for their team finish and as such,
MIT and Williams athletes lined the track, screaming and chanting their boys
to victory.  Lee opened up with a strong first leg of 50.1 to give Tech a
slight lead over Tufts, with Williams close behind in third.  In the second
leg, Barnes was able to hold off both Tufts and Williams, however, Williams
made up ground and the race became a tight, three-team sprint.  In the third
leg, Michael Amoako '19 relinquished the lead to Tufts, however, was able to
pull away from Williams, creating great anticipation for the fourth and final
leg.  At anchor, Newman left everything on the track and refused to be beat.
Newman clocked a 49.3 last leg beating Tufts and pulling away from Williams.
The Johnson Track erupted in excitement as Tech crossed the line, giving their
team 10 more points in their bid for the title.

The final event of the day was the 4x800m relay.  Entering the event, MIT now
held an 8-point lead over Williams and needed to stay as close to them as
possible.  Following the first section, it seemed as though Tech and Williams
would each have a chance to place overall, however, this year's field was
exceptionally strong.  A 1:57 opening leg did little to break up the field and
Tech was near the front following Tangri's strong performance.  Rosenkranz was
the second leg and went out hard in an attempt to keep Tech among the top
teams, but was unable to bounce back from the 3K he ran little over an hour
before.  Rosenkranz's 2:04 left MIT in a race for 8th place with Williams
fighting for a win to seal their team championship.  Although alone for much
of his leg, Chris Mutty '19 ran a season best 1:59.5 split to keep Tech in
scoring position with the baton going to anchor Jarod Wilson.  Wilson ran a
strong 1:55 leg to get into 7th position; meanwhile Williams's hopes began to
slip away as they began to fade back in the pack.  In the end, Williams
finished 5th, while MIT finished 7th with an all-freshmen 4x800m relay team.
With all events completed, MIT held on for the victory over a tenacious
Williams team with a final score of 138 to 132.

Next week, MIT goes across the river to Boston University for the NEICAAA
Championship, a meet that brings the top athletes in New England together from
Division I, II and III colleges.  The Engineers focus now shifts to the NCAA
Division III Championship in three weeks, using the upcoming two weekends for
qualifying purposes.



RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

#### **

### Records and National Marks Highlight MIT Performances

**



On the first day of the New England Intercollegiate Amateur Athletic
Association (NEICAAA) Championship, MIT track and field athletes set one
varsity record and one freshman record, and had many top 30 NCAA Division III
performances.  Day two brought two more varsity records and more National
qualifiers.

The NEICAAA is an association of all Division I, II and III teams in New
England.  With four weekends of championships in succession, MIT goes after
two of the four, the New England Division III Championships competed last
weekend and the NCAA Division III Championship in two weeks.  This weekend the
Engineers rest many of their athletes, and those that do compete do so to
better their team's chances at Nationals. Despite only having partial teams,
MIT placed ninth in the men's competition with 27 points.  The women finished
13th with 19.5 points.

The men's Pole Vault was the first event in which MIT competed.  Marshall
Wentworth '16 tied his personal best by clearing 14-11.  Freshman Scott
Cameron also competed, clearing 14-5 1/4.  With Cimmy Virdi '16 taking the
weekend off, Sherry Wan '16 was MIT's top vaulter, tying for 7th with a
personal best of 11-09 3/4, moving her in a tie for eighth on the all-time MIT
list, and a tie for 29th on the NCAA Division III indoor ranking.  Jen Tylock
'17 cleared 11-3 3/4 and Freshman Makenzie Patarino cleared 10-10.

On the track, States Lee '16 got things moving by running the fastest time in
the 400 trials, a season best 48.41, which currently ranks him at 14th in the
country for DIII.  Danny Newman '17 poorly managed the break, having to
decelerate going into the second lap, which killed his race. Nevertheless
Newman ran 49.58.  In the women's race, Hannah Chen '18 ran a personal best
56.59, putting her eleventh on the NCAA ranking.

In the 60HH, Chris Sweeney '18 ran 8.44 to make finals.  Michael Kaba '16 did
not have his best race, running 8.68.  Both irritated their hamstrings and
withdrew from the remainder of the meet.  Kaba is currently ranked 11th on the
NCAA list with a best of 8.20 while Sweeney is ranked 25th.

Tre Albritten '18 leaned too far forward at the start of the 200, taking
nearly 50 meters to regain his balance, yet still ran 21.90 to make finals.
Albritten is ranked 13th in NCAA Division III.

In the men's 5K, Dennis Maloney '19, who had forgotten his spikes, borrowed a
teammate's shoes, then had one of those spikes pulled off in the first mile
when a competitor stepped on his heel.  Yet he ran an MIT freshman record of
14:47.94.  Maloney ran 1600 splits of 4:43, 4:42, 4:50 before unloading a 32
final 200 to place fourth.  Despite his bloody foot, Maloney had a lot left in
the tank, showing he could run some great races in the future.  His
performance ranks him seventh on the all-time MIT list.

Back to the field events, Arinze Okeke '17 jumped an impressive 23-2 3/4 in
the Long Jump to place fourth.  Okeke's performance ranks him ninth on the
NCAA list and third on the all-time MIT list.  Nneoma Okonkwo '18, who last
week had tied the MIT Long Jump record at 17-8 3/4, jumped 17-11 to place
eighth.

In the Weight Throw, Jackie Vahey '17 placed third with a new personal best of
54-11 1/4.  Vahey is ranked 19th in the country.  Ariela Slutsky '18 also
threw a personal best, just missing finals with a throw of 50-4.

Finishing off the day on the track was the DMR.  The men, fielding a team
mostly comprised of freshmen, were hoping to improve their national ranking,
but more importantly, run to their potential.  Kunal Tangri '19 led off with
the 1200 leg.  Running defensively and not owning the race, he fell back as
the race progressed, but still ran a solid 3:04.3.  Lee returned from his
48.41 open 400 to move the team up four spots with a flying 48.0.  Jarod
Wilson '19 quickly moved up to the next team by splitting 53.7.  He continued
to move up, running an impressive 1:51.5 to put MIT near the lead.  Aidan
Gilson '19 took the baton and ran with the runners around him, coming through
the 400 in 60.2.  Shortly thereafter Gilson looked uncomfortable, but due
mostly from over-thinking his situation.  Nevertheless, he fought his thoughts
and continued to push, running a personal best 4:12.8 to bring his team in at
sixth place.  Overall the team ran 9:56.67, a time that currently ranks them
seventh on the NCAA list.

The women were already ranked number one in DIII, but knew the mark would not
stand and wanted to put up a performance that would solidify their trip to
Nationals.  Nicole Zeinstra '16, fresh off her fantastic double at DIII's, led
off with the 1200 leg.  She was hoping for 72 second quarter pace, but the
entire field went out in 32-33 for the first 200.  Even slowing the pace,
Zeinstra still came through the 400 in 69 and the 800 in 2:23.  She definitely
died at that point, but remained composed to finish with a 76 for a 3:38.6
performance.  Chen ran the 400 leg, but did not look recovered from her 56.59
open 400 earlier.  She ran a 58.0 but did not make up much if any ground.
Bailey Tregoning '19, just as Wilson had done in the men's DMR, got pulled out
too fast as she attempted to close ground on the leaders.  Her early splits
were 30.1 and 63.5.  She continued to move up in the field as she split 1:39
through 600 meters, then moved into fifth as she held on to run 2:13.4.
Maryann Gong '17, only racing the relay in this meet, held nothing back as she
closed on the leaders.  In so doing she went out too fast, running 33 and 68
for the first two laps.  Even settling in with the leaders she came through
the 800 at 2:21.  Instead of blowing by the leaders she settled in behind
them.  We will never know if this was the right decision, but it certainly
made sense at the time.  However, the pace slowed to a 74 before picking up
again for the final 400.  Gong thought about going past with 300 to go, but
decided against it.  They picked up the pace and she was only able to hold on,
but not pass, running a 4:47.6 for a cumulative time of 11:37.76, a solid
national leading time.

Day two started with the Triple Jump for the men.  On his final jump Okeke
jumped 47-7 to make finals.  He was unable to move up, finishing sixth in the
field and is ranked fifth in the country for Division III.  Billy Ruschel '18
and Carrington Motley '16 tied at 46-4, not making finals.  Ruschel is ranked
12th.

Isabella Stuopis '16 had a very solid effort in the Shot Put.  After making
the finals she improved to 42-7 1/2, a season best that was good enough for
fourth place.

On the track, States Lee was in the fast section of the final of the 400.  The
slow section ran first and two individuals ran sub 48 performances.  In the
fast section Lee earned the break with a 22.6 and held the lead to the finish,
running a new personal best of 48.00, good enough for a new MIT record and the
fourth best time in Division III this season.

In the 200, Albritten was the seventh fastest in the trials.  Getting a much
better start in the finals, he was second in his section and fourth overall
with a new MIT record of 21.79.  Albritten is now ranked ninth on the national
list.

Next up for MIT was the 3K.  Aidan Gilson was hoping for a national qualifying
time, which would probably take something under 8:20 at the very least.  The
initial pace was a little slow, but picked up nicely as Gilson came through
the 1600 in 4:26 and looked strong running in a close fifth place.  The pace
had picked up to 65 seconds per quarter, but Gilson slipped to 67 after one
quarter and then pulled the parachute, slowing to 72 then 74 before closing in
35 for an 8:34.98.  Next up was Nicole Zeinstra.  Also looking for a national
qualifying performance, probably a 9:55 or better.  She was running well,
coming through the 800 in 2:37.  There had already been a lot of contact, but
after 1000 meters she was pushed and fell, hitting both knees hard.  She
limped off the track with hopes of trying again next week.

The final event for MIT was the 4x400 Relay.  With Kaba sitting out, Jarod
Wilson was put back in the relay.  Seeded in the fast section with their best
of 3:15.38, they moved Lee to the leadoff leg, normally Kaba's leg.
Unfortunately, Lee drew lane one and after having already run three 400's,
each in 48, he was last coming out of the break.  However, with a great second
lap he was able to move into third place at the handoff.  After a successful
handoff, Lee angled off the track instead of following a straight path per the
NCAA rules.  Unfortunately, the outgoing Tufts runner ran into him, ending
their effort and disqualifying MIT.  The Engineers were unaware of being
disqualified since it happened after the handoff.  Wilson was in third, one
team dropped the baton and suddenly he was in second.  After a 23.0 first 200
he finished strong, taking the lead with a 49.3 leg.  Derek Barnes '16 took
over, ran a little too fast at 22.1, but did what was necessary to maintain
the lead.  In the second lap he lost the lead but it was very close at the
handoff as he finished in 49.0.  Danny Newman anchored, stalking the leader
with a 22.5 leadoff lap. In the second lap, coming off the final turn Newman
came into the finish determined to win and he did, finishing in 47.9 and an
amazing 3:15.06 victory.  Then the realization that the team was disqualified
sunk in.  Adding Kaba back in and hopefully not getting lane one again and MIT
may have what it takes to win Nationals.

Next week, MIT will send those who have qualified to the IC4A Championship at
Boston University.  Others with a hope of making Nationals will compete at the
Tufts Last Chance Qualifier on Friday.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Career Weekend For MIT Track & Field

Two Varsity and Three Freshman Records Among Myriad Personal Bests

January 30, 2016

After three consecutive weekends of scoring meets, it was nice to let the dogs
run so to speak.  Rather than worry about points or winning meets, MIT split
their team up, providing the best competitive environment for each of the
athletes, competing at three different meets.

The primary meet was the Boston University John Thomas Terrier Classic.  The
meet format had the women competing on Friday and the men on Saturday.  Being
widely known as arguably the fastest track in the country, athletes,
professional and collegiate come from around the country to compete at the two
invitationals offered by BU, the Terrier this weekend and Valentines two weeks
later.

MIT's first entry was Bailey Tregoning '19 in the 800.  She entered the meet
with a 2:19 personal best, but the plan was to win her section and hope that
such an effort would net her a 2:15 performance.  Even starting in the back of
the back, the pace for her first 200 was much too fast at 31 seconds.  She did
not let that affect her, she just raced, moving up through the pack well in
splits of 64 and 1:39.  In the final 200 she was able to move up to fourth and
a new MIT freshman record of 2:14.58. Her performance was an indication of
what to expect the rest of the weekend.

Hannah Chen '18 ran her first competitive 400 of the season, and despite
fatigue from a hard two weeks of work, she was able to run a well paced race,
winning in a season best 58.10.  Later, in the 200 she ran 26.10 in another
victory.  Teammate Nneoma Okonkwo '18 ran a personal best 25.95 despite
leaning prematurely at the wrong finish line.  Kendra Knittel '17, just back
from injury, ran 26.52 in the 200.

Jackie Vahey '17 was the only field event performer MIT brought to the venue,
and she competed well.  She did not have personal bests but she did throw 52-7
1/4 in the Weight Throw (2 cm off her best) and 38-4 3/4 in the Shot Put.

In the Mile Run, Clementine Mitchell '18 ran a significant personal best as
she ran 5:16.11.  There is still plenty of room for improvement as Mitchell
lost focus in the middle of the race, but finished well.

In the 3K, MIT had five entries, all were looking for very competitive races
and to qualify for the New England Division III Championship.  With the banked
track penalty it would take a 10:41 for a qualifying time.  Nicole Zeinstra
'16 led the MIT qualifiers with a 10:29.14. Also qualifying were Megan
Montgomery '19 (10:33.75) and Bailey Margolis '19 (10:34.53). Camila Thanos
'19 just missed qualifying, running 10:42.11. Darby LaPlant '19 fell off the
pace at the end, running 10:50.21.

The most anticipated event for MIT was the 5K.  Maryann Gong '17 was making
her 5K debut against a very strong field of runners who had all run in the low
16's. The plan was to run 5:15-5:20 pace from start to finish and go for the
win if the opportunity presented itself.  The pace could not have been more
perfect as the field clicked off 39 second 200's en route to a 5:15 first mile
and 5:16 second mile.  After 2800 meters she ran her first 41 second 200,
falling off the pace slightly from the top three runners.  Two of the three
slowed also, giving Gong a group to run with through a 5:23 third mile.  Gong
was in unchartered territory, making a tremendous effort to hold on and race
despite the fatigue.  She desperately tried to beat the two runners in front
of her, closing in a 38 final 200, but was unable to do so.  Regardless, her
16:32.44 is the fastest time in the country for Division III this year, in
fact, the second fastest indoor time ever in Division III, and of course a new
MIT record.

The next day the men took over where the women left off.  Michael Kaba '16 led
things off in the 60HH, tying his season best of 8.46, an impressive
performance on the soft sprint surface at BU. The next competitor was Jarod
Wilson '19 running the 800.  Wilson had run a 1:56 at the MIT Intrasquad Meet
back in the December, but since that time had dealt with two minor leg
injuries that had him ill prepared mentally for last week's meet.  That
embarrassment had him in a much better mental state entering this race.
Having led most races in high school, Wilson was trying to become accustomed
to letting others set the pace and do the work.  He narrowly avoided getting
boxed in during the third 200, positioned himself well throughout the race and
with 150 remaining, kicked past the leaders to win in a new MIT freshman
record of 1:52.74.  The former record holder was perhaps the greatest MIT
runner of all-time, Paul Neves '83, who had run a 1:52.7 hand time back in
1980.

The 400 runners were up next, trying to position themselves for the New
England Division III Championship as well as to determine who would ultimately
be on the 4x400 Relay team.  States Lee '16 was first up.  Running an
impressive first 200 in 22.7 and getting the break, Lee worked the second 200
well to hold off his competition and win in 48.64.  Kaba was back on the track
for the two lapper, also running a near perfect first 200.  His second 200 he
strained too hard to hold off his opponents, which caused a slight loss of
speed, but not enough to keep the junior (from an eligibility point of view)
from running a 48.98 PR.  Danny Newman '17 ran  a very strong race to run a
personal best 49.80.  Derek Barnes '16 ran an excellent first 200, earned the
break, but did not guard the inside lane well enough, getting shoved out to
lane two by a runner who squeezed through, causing Barnes to stumble for a few
steps.  He re-focused to finish in 50.10.  Luca Cacopardo '18 got out a bit
slow, running 23.4 for the opening 200, but ran a strong middle 200 to finish
in 50.33.  Michael Amoako '19 ran a personal best of 51.47 and Talla Babou '19
ran a PR 51.57.

In the Mile Run, only Kunal Tangri '19 represented MIT, but that was enough as
the freshman ran an outstanding 4:13.25.  The freshman record is 4:11.67, a
mark that is within his reach.

The 400 runners would have a long day as most of them would return in the 200
less than an hour after their 400 and then some of them would run the 4x400 to
attempt to get a national qualifying performance.  In the 200 Kaba earned top
billing with his 21.90 personal best and new MIT record.  Tre Albritten '18
was just .02 off his PR, but his 22.01 was a season best. Newman ran 22.36 to
barely miss making MIT's all-time top ten list.  Lee has not been as smooth on
the turns this year in the 200, and it showed with his 22.42.  Cacopardo ran
22.66 out of lane two, a lane the sophomore seems to get every meet.  Richard
Lu '16 ran 22.91.

The goal for the 4x400 was to run around 3:15.  For the first effort of the
year, everyone knew the goal would be a reach.  Nevertheless the quartet of
Kaba, Wilson, Newman and Lee were invested and focused.  Kaba led off and did
a marvelous job, splitting 48.5 as he handed off to Wilson in the lead.
Wilson, coming off of miler workouts, did not appear to have the acceleration
to defend the lead.  He split 50.3, but it is apparent he can go much faster
as he was stuck in third most of the second lap and could not get around the
two leaders.  Newman ran a strong third leg, splitting 49.5.  Lee passed one
runner but could not take the win even though he ran 48.5 for a 3:16.94
performance, currently number two in NCAA Division III.

The final event for Tech was the 3K.  Colin Godwin '17, Aidan Gilson '19 and
David Walter '18 were out to run in the 8:20's, perhaps faster.  With Josh
Rosenkranz '19 sitting out after just having set the freshman record of
8:33.32 last week on a flat track, Gilson was hoping to steal the record.
Gilson ran first and was very fortunate to get a negative split pace to a 4:27
first mile.  However, the freshman reverted to negative thoughts and let the
perfect pace get to him, thinking it was too fast.  After 2K he slowed to 70
and then 71 for the next two 400's, before waking up a bit to finish with a 32
final 200, running 8:28.85, and a new freshman record.  Godwin was in the next
section. The leaders in his race went out a little slower, hitting the 1600 in
4:32.  However, Godwin continued to run 68 400's and then with 600 to go ran
65 and finished with a 30 final 200 to run 8:23.41.  Walter was in the slower
section, which was still pretty quick.  The sophomore came through the 1600 in
4:43.  At that point he should have gone for the win, but he doubted himself.
Unlike other races, he continued to stay engaged, even having a strong kick at
the end to run a personal best 8:45.05.

At the Tufts Stampede, the multi's were doing pretty well.  Natalie Alper '17
did not have her best day, but it was strong enough as she won the overall
event.  She ran the 60HH in a best of 10.38.  Her High Jump tied her personal
best of 5-3 3/4.  However her Shot Put was a dismal 23-4 3/4 and her Long Jump
just average at 15-10 1/4.  She bounced back with an outstanding 800 in
2:28.20 for a total score of 2975 points.  Haley Strouf '18 had a big day and
set a PR of 2741 points.  She ran a personal best in the 60HH of 10.08, had a
long jump of 16-6, threw the shot 31-11 1/2 and high jumped 4-8 3/4, all
terrific marks.  Her downfall was the 800, which she ran in 2:55.27.

In the men's Heptathlon, Luke Gray '18 came close to his personal best with a
score of 4128 pts.  Gray had marks of 9.18 in the 60HH, 17-10 3/4 in the Long
Jump, 37-7 3/4 in the Shot Put, 5-2 1/4 in the High Jump, 7.73 in the 60 Meter
Dash, 12-3 1/2 in the Pole Vault and a strong 2:52.67 in the 1000.  The total
should qualify him for the New England Division III Championship.

Back at MIT's Art Farnham Invitaitonal a tremendous battle was brewing in the
Triple Jump.  Billy Ruschel '18 opened up with a best ever of 46-11 1/2.
Arinze Okeke '17 answered with a season best of 47-6.  On his second attempt,
Okeke added a little distance with a 47-7 3/4 jump. Angel Echevarria '16
jumped 45-1 1/2 on his third jump.  The finals had a lot of potential and
Carrington Motley '16, who took a while to get going, put one out there on his
fourth attempt, jumping 45-9 1/4.  Unfortunately no one improved after that
even though they jumped consistently well.

Marshall Wentworth '16 won the Pole Vault with a new personal best of 14-11.
In the women's Pole Vault, Cimmy Virdi '16 cleared 13-1 1/2 to win the event
and lead the country for Division III.  The vaulters dominated with an
outstanding day.  Jen Tylock '17 cleared 11-1 3/4, Makenzie Patarino '19
cleared 10-8, as did Madeleine Waller '17.  Kathleen Brandes '19 and Leah
Schmitz '16 both cleared 10-2.

Other strong marks were earned by Isabella Stuopis '16 with a shot put of 41-4
3/4 and by Ariela Slutsky '18 with a put of 37-6 3/4.

Next week, MIT takes nearly their entire squad to Tufts for the Cupid
Challenge.  There will be extremely good competition as teams are coming from
all over the East Coast to race.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Relays Rule the Day For MIT

Albritten Sets MIT 200 Record

February 12-13, 2016

For the most part, MIT Track & Field used this weekend, the one prior to the
New England Division III Championship, to rest and get ready for whatever is
necessary to defend their New England Division III titles.  For those who
needed to compete MIT split their squads.  On Friday, the women's runners and
the men's Distance Medley Relay (DMR) ran at the David Hemery Valentine
Invitational at Boston University.  On Saturday, the men's runners along with
the men's DMR ran at BU.  Those men and women in the field events and short
sprints competed at MIT's Gordon Kelly Invitational, and Cimmy Virdi '16
competed on Sunday at the New Balance Grand Prix meet at the Reggie Lewis
Center.

The Valentine meet kicked off with the men's DMR.  MIT was taking their first,
and hopefully last shot at qualifying for the NCAA Division III Championship,
which would probably take a time just under 9:50.  MIT was depending on three
freshmen for the middle-distance legs so anything could happen.  Kunal Tangri
'19 led things off with the 1200 leg.  Despite running a 2:30 1000 last week
on a flat track, the freshman got in the back of a pack early on and struggled
on the banked track. Tangri handed off to States Lee '16 at 3:07.  When your
team is at the back of the race, each leg tends to go out too fast in an
effort to move up and this certainly happened to MIT.  At this point the team
had no chance at Nationals but they did not know that.  Lee went out too fast
for the first 200 (22.1), but still finished strong in 48.2.  Jarod Wilson '19
took off for the 800 leg, also going out too fast, running 25.7 for the
opening 200.  Wilson competed well nevertheless, finishing in 1:52.6 and
moving MIT up a few teams.  The 1600 anchor leg was run by Aidan Gilson '19.
He also went out too fast, running 60.2 for the opening 400 and was solid at
2:04 for the 800, but then the wheels started to fall off the bus.  Regardless
he held on well, closing in 4:15.3 to give MIT an overall time of 10:03.73.
They may give it another try in two weeks, particularly if Colin Godwin '17 is
ready to race.

Opening up the meet for the women was Bailey Tregoning '19 in the 800.
Tregoning, still learning to compete at the collegiate level, got pulled out
too fast (31.5) and then the entire pack put the breaks on, causing her to get
jostled around a little.  With a lap to go she took the lead but got caught in
the final 50 to run 2:15.69.

Hannah Chen '18 and Kendra Knittel '17 both raced the 400 and 200 meter races.
In the 400 Chen ran a season best despite running in lane two the entire
second lap as she tried in vain to take the lead.  Her 57.53 may get her into
next week's fast section.  Knittel showed she is coming back nicely from her
injury, running 59.98 leading start to finish for the section victory.  In the
200 Chen drew lane two, but still ran close to her best with a 25.96.  Knittel
was in lane three and ran 26.86.

The final event for Tech on Friday was the Mile Run. Clemmie Mitchell '18 and
Megan Montgomery '19 ran nearly identical times, but the race to get there
could not have been more opposite.  Mitchell raced first.  She stayed on the
rail, starting off in the back of the field, but moving up when there were
opportunities on the inside.  It seemed she was determined to run the least
distance possible.  Her first 400 was 77 seconds and from there she deviated
very little as she ran 80, 79 and 77 to take second in her section in 5:13.19.
Montgomery, not a very patient runner, took the lead late in the first 200 and
hit the first 400 in 74.  She proceeded to keep the lead, but slow to 77, then
80 and finally 82 as she was passed in the final 100 by two runners to run
5:13.30.

On Saturday, the women were back on the track for the DMR.  The goal was to be
the top DIII team and to go under 11:40.  The quartet of Nicole Zeinstra '16,
Hannah Chen '18, Bailey Tregoning '19 and Maryann Gong '17 were in the fast
section with plenty of competition.  Zeinstra led off in the 1200 leg.  She
positioned herself in the back, but even that was too quick as she came
through the 400 in 71.  The pace settled down as she came through the 800 in
2:24.  At this point it looked as though she would take off, but the pace
scared her even though she looked very comfortable.  She was able to run a
3:40, which was her goal, but the team was in last place.  Chen ran the 400
leg and moved up one team and closed on a couple others as she ran a 56.8.
Tregoning, suffering pretty badly from a cold, did not let it affect her
mentally.  However, after a 31 opening 200 and 65 400, it was obvious the cold
was having an effect.  She struggled on the final lap, finishing in 2:16 but
had passed two more teams.  Gong received the baton with two Division III
teams in front of her, Middlebury and Cortland State. She opened up with a 71,
but slowed to 2:24 as no team was in sight.  As she entered the third quarter
she caught sight of another team and used this to stay focused.  Her final
split of 4:51.5 gave the team an 11:45.66 overall.  They did not meet their
time goal but they did finish as the top DIII team, and may have the top time
in the country for DIII.  Regardless, they have at least ten seconds in the
tank if they race it again.

The first event for the MIT men was the 800.  Jarod Wilson '19 was in an
excellent section, one that would set him up for a great performance.  The
first lap was 25 and the 400 54.1, but on that second lap it was obvious his
head was not in the game as he allowed a gap in front of him to go unfilled,
so others filled it for him, pushing him to the back of the pack.  He checked
out at this point, giving up and jogging in in 1:55.32, missing another great
opportunity.  Nathan Munet '19 ran a season and indoor best 1:56.95 and would
have run even faster had he not made a couple of strategic errors.  Chris
Mutty '19 ran 1:59.49 to win his section.

Michael Kaba '16, in addition to the 200 and 4x400 later in the meet, raced in
the 60 Meter High Hurdles.  His start was off and he had to cut his step into
the first hurdle but still ran a competitive 8.45.

States Lee '16 ran the fastest time for the Engineers in the 400.  The senior
got the break in 22.4 out of lane three then tightened up in the final 100 to
finish in 48.55, a season best.  Danny Newman '17 raced well to run 49.30, a
personal best, and Derek Barnes '16 ran equally well to finish in 49.74, a
season best.  Tom Frejowski '19 ran an indoor personal best of 51.33.

In the 500, both Henry Tareque '17 and Brandon Corts '17 ran PR's.  Tareque
went out a little too fast in 25.1, but held on to run 1:06.38.  Corts ran a
more even pace of 26 and 52 en route to a 1:07.04.

Tre Albritten '18 took the lead in the 200 team standings as he ran 21.87,
setting a new MIT record in the process, out of lane three no less.  Kaba ran
a solid 21.96.  Luca Cacopardo '18, once again drew lane two, but brought a
good attitude to the race and ran a season best 22.58.

The Mile Run did not go as planned.  Aidan Gilson '19 was not in the race to
start with.  The pace was not particularly fast as he came through the 440 in
63.  The pace slowed but Gilson did not react and allowed runners to pass him
without challenge.  He never totally gave up, but his 4:16.44 shows he did not
own the race.  Tangri was up next.  His section went out in 64 and 2:09 and he
was right up at the front.  He should have taken the lead then and moved away,
but he bogged down and lost his instinct for the win.  When the pace picked up
he was unable to respond, finishing in 4:20.03.

The 4x400 Relay was the highlight of the day.  MIT was in the second section
with Kaba leading off. Despite a 22.2 first 200 he was back in second place.
Kaba held it together to produce a 48.4.  Newman received the baton, but was
too far behind first and too far ahead of third to feel any competition.
Nevertheless he split 49.3.  Wilson took off much better than he did two weeks
ago, but despite a 23.2 200 he was passed, falling into third place.  He kept
it reasonably close as he split 49.6.  Lee nearly blew the handoff, but
managed to secure it. Lee moved into second place on the second lap and held
it to the finish to split 47.9 for a cumulative time of 3:15.38.

David Walter '18 was the lone distance runner representing MIT in the meet.
Running the 3K with hopes of running in the 8:30's, he moved up towards the
front of the field as they came through the first 400 in 70 seconds.  As they
sped up to 67 pace, Walter ran one lap at that pace and then faded back to 70
pace through 2000 meters.  He finished the race running 73's for an 8:48.26
performance.

Over at MIT there were some impressive performances, the most impressive in
the Women's Shot Put.  Not only did Isabella Stuopis '16 throw her season best
in winning with a throw of 42-4 1/2 and Jackie Vahey '17 return to her normal
throwing range of 39', but Audrey Pillsbury '19 and Ariela Slutsky '18 threw
big personal bests of 38-5 3/4 and 37-6 3/4 respectively as they moved to
number five and number seven on the all-time MIT list.  Vahey also threw a
personal best in the Weight Throw, winning with a 52-10 1/4.  Slutsky also
threw a PR with her throw of 49-9 1/2.

Jen Tylock '17 vaulted 11-7 3/4 for a personal best and sole possession of
number nine on the MIT top ten list.  Also setting PR's were Makenzie Patarino
'19 at 11-1 and Leah Schmitz '16 at 10-6.  On the men's side, Scott Cameron
'19 vaulted a personal best of 14-11.

Other season bests were run by Liz Cox '18 in the 800 at 2:26.66, Richard Lu
'16 in the 60 Meter Dash at 7.23 and Adis Ojeda '19 with a 24.39 in the 200.

On Sunday, Cimmy Virdi '16 will compete at the New Balance Grand Prix meet.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



