


  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

VARSITY OVERWHELMS ALUMNI WITH DEPTH AND BALANCE

January 4, 2014

The Thursday-Friday snow storm cancelled many flights for those returning
varsity athletes as well as some of the alums coming back to Cambridge for the
annual Alumni/ae Meet. Many took over 24 hours of travel to get back to MIT,
some not arriving until just before the competition, and many not making it
back in time for the meet. Friday's practice was cancelled due to the state of
emergency in the area, meaning the team had not practiced or competed since
December 14. To make matters worse, the heat was not working in the building
until shortly before the start of the meet, making the temperature for
competition between 50-60 degrees at its best.

Despite all that, the men's varsity squad won 98.5-18.5 and the women's
varsity took first place 98-20 over their elders. Most of the performances
were not outstanding, but the competitive effort was excellent. No doubt there
was some rust that needs taking off, but overall the teams look ready to make
their mark on the New England Indoor Track & Field season.

On the men's side, there was solid representation from the "Has-Beens", as 19
competed with many more in the house to support there comrades. The women had
fewer competing with 14 performing, but also having quite a few in attendance
for support.

The best performances by the men were turned in Ken Cooper '15, who won both
the 35lb. Weight Throw and Shot Put, Carrington Motley '16 winning both the
Long Jump and Triple Jump and Harrison Hunter '15 winning the 800. Cooper
showed his talents by throwing the weight 59-5 and putting the shot 51-1 3/4,
both very close to personal bests. Motley took no prisoners, winning the Long
Jump by over a foot with his short approach 21-0 1/2 performance, and did even
better in the Triple Jump with a 44-10 1/4 effort. Hunter out-dueled teammate
Justin Bullock '14, running a very strong 1:56.94 to Bullock's 1:57.85, both
impressive times on the tight turns of the MIT 200 meter flat track.

Also claiming a victory was John Thomas '15 clearing 6-0 in the High Jump.
Richard Lu '16 led a nice sweep in the 60 meter dash of 7.15 to 7.16 for
Taylor Njaka '17 and 7.19 for Tyler Singer-Clark '14. Singer-Clark reversed
things in the 200, leading a sweep with his 22.99 to Njaka's 23.49, with Nick
Diamantoni '15 claiming third with his 24.16. Mac Gager '14 took first place
honors in a varsity sweep of the 400, clocking 52.02, with Sam Parker '15
moving down to the 400 to take second in 52.11 and Diamantoni again earning
third place in 52.25. Matt McEachern led an all-freshman sweep in a very
strategic, but pedestrian like mile as no one seemed to want to run fast.
McEachern ran 4:32.32 while Ken Leidal ran 4:32.88 and Nick Matthews raced to
a 4:38.99. The final sweep was in the 5K with Benji Xie '15 leading Matt
Jordan '15 and Brian Gilligan '17 to the finish line in 15:48.81 to 15:54.26
and 16:05.02 respectively.

The key performances for the Alumni were had by former All American, Nate Ball
'05 in the Pole Vault, winning for the second year in a row with a vault of
14-5 1/4, and Omari Stephens '08 who won the High Hurdles in 9.00 and claimed
second in the vault at 13-5 1/4.

Other Alums who scored were many time All American, Craig Mielcarz '03, taking
second in the High Jump at 6-0, Matt Falk '12 tying for third in the High Jump
at 5-10, Patrick Barragan '08 earning third in the Pole Vault for an Alumni
sweep, and Nick Leonard '11 taking third in the 60HH in 9.34.

The women's competition was led by Jackie Brew '14, as she won the 60 Meter
High Hurdles in 9.43, won the 200 in 27.26, and took second in the 60 Meter
Dash by .01 to teammate Veronica Szklarzewski '15, 8.21 to 8.22. She also
anchored the winning 4x200 Relay.

There were many varsity victors and quite a few sweeps as well. Ellen
Liverpool '15 moved up to number five on the all-time MIT list with her 46-6
3/4 victory over teammates Ashley Wheeler '15 (43-10 1/4) and Jackie Vahey '17
(40-4 1/4). In the other throwing event, Isabella Stuopis '16 came off injury
to come close to her personal best to win the Shot Put in 42-4 1/4 over
teammates Vahey at 37-7 3/4 and Christine Labaza at 33-11 1/4. Both of Brew's
victories led sweeps as her teammates, Stephanie Guo '17, took second in the
60HH in 9.86 while Stephanie Birkhimer '14 claimed third in 10.01. In the 200,
Kendra Knittel '17 ran 28.30 for second in the 200 and Birkhimer earned third
with a 28.73 performance. In the 400 Guo earned the victory over Knittel 64.28
to 67.41. Cindy Huang '15 was the only runner in the 800, so she won with an
uninspired 2:28.45. Louise van den Heuvel '14 dominated the Mile as she led
her team to a sweep with a 5:08.11 victory. Maryann Gong '17 took second in
5:14.64 while Elaine McVay '15 ran 5:29.03 for third. Kaitlin Allen '14 took
first place honors in the 5K with a 18:25.65 over teammates Shivani Kaushal
'15 in 19:06.94 and Heather Sweeney '16 in 19:33.41. Other victories by
varsity members were earned by Preethi Vaidyanathan '15 in the High Jump,
clearing 5-1 3/4, and Michelle Johnson '15 taking first in the Triple Jump
with a 34-3 1/2 performance.

The Alums, similar to their male counterparts, dominated the Pole Vault,
taking four of the top five places with Karin Fisher '11 winning at 11-11 1/4
and Lauren Kuntz '13 taking second at 11-5 1/4. Diana Zhu '12 won the Long
Jump with a leap of 16-0 1/2, and tied for second in the High Jump at 4-9 3/4.
Other scorers for the "Has Beens" were a second place in the Triple Jump by
Julia Zimmerman '12 in 33-8 3/4, Margaret Leibovic '10 in the 60 with a 9.14
third place effort and Martha Gross '12 taking third in the 400 in 1:16.09.

Next week, MIT travels to Lewiston, Maine to compete against host Bates
College and Colby College.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Tech Track Takes Tri-Meet Versus Bates and Colby Colleges

January 11, 2014

MIT Track & Field teams traveled to Bates College in Lewiston, Maine to open
the 2014 intercollegiate indoor season in a tri-meet versus Bates and Colby
College. With all three teams just returning from the holiday break,
expectations for national level performances were not high. MIT was looking to
begin the season undefeated and to compete well in all instances.

MIT was favored to win the men's and women's meet based on entry seeds, and
that is exactly what happened. The men took first place honors in the meet,
winning 10 of 17 events to outscore their opponents 194 to 100 for Bates and
67 for Colby. The women, still dealing with quite a few key injuries, won 11
of 18 events for 181.5 points to 107 for Bates and 85.5 for Colby.

While starting undefeated was a goal that came to fruition, the
competitiveness was pretty solid, but not what is necessary to win
championships.

The marquee matchup for the men was the anticipated battle of juniors Ken
Cooper of MIT and Sean Enos of Bates, both contenders for the national title
in the Weight Throw at the NCAA Division III Championship in March. Enos rode
the home crowd noise to take down Cooper 61-10 1/2 to 59-07. The two, also
national level in the Shot Put, ended the meet with another battle, another
one won by Enos. This time Cooper threw a personal best 52-7 1/2, but Enos won
at 53-11 1/4.

The throws were two of the very few events in which MIT was outscored by
either of their opponents. The most dominating events for the Engineers were
the 200, 400, 600, 3K and the Pole Vault. The scoring rules for the meet
dictated six scoring places per non-relay event with no more than four
individuals from one team allowed to score in any event. The points assigned
for places 1-6 were 7-5-4-3-2-1.

In the 3K, Roy Wedge '14 led his teammates to the first five places on the 200
meter flat track. Wedge clocked 8:52.37, Matt Jordan '15 8:54.26, Matt
McEachern '17 8:57.96, Allen Leung '15 9:00.26 and Brian Gilligan '17 9:06.01
to max out the 19 points to be earned in an event. The 600 was a loaded field
for MIT, and even though they dominated the field, they did not do as well as
they should. Chadd Kiggins '15 took over the race from teammate Mac Gager '14
going into the final lap and never looked back, clocking 1:23.20. Gager lost a
little of his competitive effort once Kiggins went by, which cost him second
place to the winner of the previous section. Freshmen Henry Tareque and
Brandon Corts earned fifth and sixth but should have been fourth and fifth as
their times of 1:28.06 and 1:28.77 were not at all competitive or near their
abilities. The 400 exposed more early season errors by the Engineers. States
Lee '16, ran a flawless race, winning in 50.68, am impressive time this early
on a flat 200 meter track. However, teammate Derek Barnes '16 did not push the
first 200 as he should, causing him to lose momentum at the break, ultimately
costing him second place. Nick Diamantoni '15 ran 52.14 for fourth, an
exceptional effort for starting in lane one. Michael Kaba '16 allowed pre
existing soreness get in his head, causing him to give up competitively after
100 meters, but still held on for sixth place in 52.28. The athletes seemed to
learn from their mistakes, as demonstrated in the results of the 200 towards
the end of the meet. Tyler Singer-Clark '14 won his signature event in 22.83.
Kaba realized his earlier error, putting together a fine 23.12 second place
effort. Lee, relegated to lane three at the start, could not overcome the
disadvantage, finishing third in 23.14. Barnes, in an earlier, less
competitive section, waited until the 50 meter mark to start moving, ending up
fifth overall in 23.36. Diamantoni, again getting an unfavorable lane (lane
two) finished sixth at 23.62. While favored winner in the Pole Vault, Ben
Schreck '15 forgot the one pole he needed, resulting in a no-height finish,
his teammates came through, as Ian Perry '17, decathlete, Jordan Mizerak '14
and Marshall Wentworth '16 all cleared 13-1 1/2 to take second through fourth
places. Another decathlete, Adrian Samsel '16 claimed fifth with a personal
best 11-1 3/4.

Other event winners for MIT were led by Angel Echevarria '16 in the Triple
Jump at 44-6 3/4, just missing a 46+ jump by a very slight toe foul. Sam
Parker '15 took first place in the 800, outkicking teammate Justin Bullock
'14, 1:59.28 to 1:59.86. John Thomas '15 won an anemic High Jump event at 6'
0". Kaba ran close to a personal best in winning the 60HH in 8.61. The quartet
of Gager, Parker, Bullock and Kiggins came down in distance to win the 4x400
in 3:28.04. Despite the deficit Ian Tolan '16 gave his teammates in the 1200
leg of the DMR, Harrison Hunter '15, Nick Matthews '17 and Ken Leidal '17 ran
exceptional races to win in 10:46.47.

While the depth was seriously affected by the injuries to the women's team,
the quality was still there. The ladies from MIT took every field event
victory. Leading they way with a second personal best in two weeks was Ellen
Liverpool '15, who threw 48-5 1/4 to move up to number four all-time on MIT's
list. Teammate Isabella Stuopis '16 broke her own Tech record in the Shot Put,
winning with a throw of 43-0 1/2. The overall star of the day for the
Engineers was Jackie Konopka '14, who claimed three victories in three events
competed. Her first victory was in the Long Jump at 16-6. Next, she took the
60HH in 9.19 after running a PR of 9.15 in the trials. Her final event was the
High Jump, which she took with a jump of 5-3. Cimmy Virdi '16 won the Pole
Vault easily with a vault of 11-7. Michelle Johnson '15 claimed the Triple
Jump with a leap of 35-0 1/4. Overall, MIT took the field events with a very
impressive 85.5 points to 24 for Bates and 22.5 for Colby.

The supporting cast in the High Jump was led by Stephanie Guo '17 who took
second at 5-1 3/4 and would have cleared 5-3 or higher, but had to jump at
that height right after taking fourth place in the 600. Guo also placed fourth
in the Long Jump with 16-1 1/2 and sixth in the 60HH at 10.06. Preethi
Vaidyanathan '15 tied for third in the High Jump at 5-1 3/4 and Natalie Alper
'17 placed fourth at 4-11 3/4. Johnson placed third in the Long Jump at 16-4
1/4. In the Weight Throw, Ashley Wheeler '15 threw a PR of her own as she took
second with a 46-10 3/4 throw. Stuopis claimed fourth in 43-5 1/4. Jackie
Vahey '17 took second in the Shot Put at 37-6 1/2 while Christine Labaza
placed fifth with a throw of 33-3 3/4. Stephanie Birkhimer '14, competing in
five events, saved her best for last, taking second in the Triple Jump at 34-4
1/4. Also in the Triple Jump, Veronica Szklarzewski '15 finished in sixth at
32-5 3/4. Jen Tylock '17 cleared 10-6 in the Pole Vault for third place while
Sherry Wan '16 placed sixth while clearing 10-0.

In addition to Konopka's victory in the hurdles, Tech earned three other
victories on the track. Jackie Brew '14, who claimed second in the 60HH and
fifth in the 60 Meter Dash, won the 200 in 27.24. Cindy Huang '15 took first
place in the 600, leading wire to wire in 1:43.73. Maryann Gong '17, not at
her best while placing third in the Mile with a very mediocre 5:15, put it
together by ripping off a 2:20.52 victory in the 800. Louise van den Heuvel
'14 did not run the smartest race, but probably the most competitive in
winning the 1000 in 3:00.53. Taking the lead by going out in 34, van den
Heuvel started coasting a bit with three 200's in 37, allowing talented Bates
runner, Sarah Fusco back into the race. When Fusco came up hard on her in the
final lap, van den Heuvel responded with an excellent last 100 to put the race
away.

Next week, MIT returns to Maine, visiting Bowdoin College, the host to MIT,
Springfield and WPI.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Men and Women Remain Undefeated With Excellent Performances

January 18, 2014

For the second week in a row, the Men's and Women's Track & Field teams took
the two and a half hour trip to Maine, this time the host was Bowdoin College.
The competing schools other than Bowdoin and MIT were Springfield College and
WPI. With another week of practice under their belts, MIT showed significant
improvement from the week before. The men had too much quality and depth for
their opponents, winning the team competition with 272.33 points to 111.83 for
host Bowdoin, 104.83 for Springfield and 59 for WPI. The women turned in very
similar scores despite a severe lack of depth in the running events as many
top runners are still out. The Engineers scored 283.5 to 152 for Bowdoin, 81
for Springfield and 55.5 for WPI. The scoring format was 10-8-6-4-2-1 for six
scoring places per event.

The men won 12 of 18 events and earned runner-up in nine of them. Ken Cooper
'15 was the only double winner of the day for Tech, winning both the Weight
Throw at 57-2 1/4 and the Shot Put with a huge PR of 55-0 1/4 to move him to
number three in the country. Cooper was supported by Alex Noakes '16 in the
Weight Throw, earning fourth with a PR of 46-7 1/2 and Sebastian Santos '17 in
the Shot Put with a 45-11 1/4 personal best. Both Cooper and Santos threw
their best on their final throw.

Ben Schreck '15 won the Pole Vault, clearing 15-1. Jordan Mizerak '14,
primarily a Heptathlete/Decathlete, stepped up his game to clear 14-1 1/4 to
earn second. Carrington Motley '16 won the Triple Jump with a 44-10 3/4 effort
while teammate, Angel Echevarria '16 took second place honors with a 43-9 1/4
performance. Motley also placed second in the Long Jump with a 21-6 3/4 jump.
He narrowly fouled a big jump of at least mid 22's. The men scored 84 points
in the six field events alone.

The surprise performance of the day was turned in by Matt McEachern '17 in the
5K. Matt's goal was to run a pretty large PR of 15:20 and place 5th. Roy Wedge
'14, attempting to run sub 15:00 on his own, leading the entire way, faded at
the 3200 mark. After a couple of laps led by Allen Leung '15, McEachern took
over and moved away from the pack quite easily as he went to 71 second splits
and finished with a 33 final 200 to win with a 15:04.22. Leung placed third in
15:15.20 and Wedge held on for fourth in 15:19.40. While Brian Gilligan '17
did not score, he did run a really huge personal best of 15:56.04.

The Mile Run provided some excellent performances. Justin Bullock '14, trying
to manage a lower leg injury, took the race out in 2:05, which set-up Coby
Horowitz '14 from Bowdoin for a nice start for the leading time in the country
with a flat track 4:11.93 victory. Bullock held on for third in 4:21.38. Nick
Matthews '17 has transitioned into a very competitive runner. He began the day
with a 4:26.97 individual effort win in the slow section of the Mile, which
earned him fifth place overall. He then joined Chadd Kiggins '15 (2:31.77) and
Bullock (2:35.61) for a 1-3-4 finish in the 1000 with a 2:37.88 performance
and then joined the 4x400 A relay with very little notice, clocking a 52.6
split to help the team to victory in 3:29.62.

MIT's strength right now is most definitely in the long sprints and that
certainly showed up in the results. In the 200, Tyler Singer-Clark '14, in the
disadvantageous lane three, used his teammates; Michael Kaba '16 in lane five
and State Lee '16 in lane six, to run a flat track season best of 22.82 for
the victory. Lee and Kaba also ran season bests, placing second and third
respectively in 22.96 and 22.98. Nick Diamantoni '15, provided lane two and
running in a slower section, pulled out a well earned sixth place in 23.46.
Not too slack in the shorter sprints either, Singer-Clark and Kaba placed
second and third earlier in the day in the 60 with respective times of 7.17
and 7.19. Before that Kaba won the 60HH in 8.56.

The domination continued in the 400 where Lee ran a season best 50.11 for the
victory and teammate Derek Barnes '16 pulled out a 50.72 for second despite
being assigned lane one. Again Diamantoni ran a nice race, this time earning
fourth place in 51.42.

The 600 Meter race was more of the same and then some. Sam Parker '15,
determined to break 1:22, did his best, splitting 27.0 and 54.6, but was not
quite able to do it all by himself as he slowed slightly, running 1:22.90. Mac
Gager '14 ran an excellent race for a season best of 1:24.01 for second place.
Andrew Mullen '17 ran his best race of the season, and there is plenty more
there as the talented freshman placed third in 1:24.79. Two other freshman on
the team also placed out of the slow section. Henry Tareque earned fifth place
in 1:27.18 and Gary Burnett placed sixth in 1:27.19.

Displaying MIT's depth, parts of the second and third relay team combined to
run the before mentioned impressive 3:29.62 victory. Tareque split 52.3 as the
leadoff leg, Harrison Hunter '15 a 52.2 second leg and Mullen took the baton
from Matthews to clock a 52.5 anchor.

There are very few opportunities to run a quality 4x800 relay during the
regular season. While the 4x800 relay in the New England Division III
Championships does not require a time, getting into the critical fast section
does. Even though the Engineers have won that event in the championships from
the slow section in the past, that is certainly not the preferred way to go.
So, Gager, Parker, Dominique Hoskin '15 and Kiggins took to the track with the
intent of winning and winning big. Gager, not accustomed to running the 800,
did a great job in bringing in the baton in 2:02.7. Parker went out fast
trying to make up ground on WPI and by the end of the first quarter had
eliminated their lead. Continuing to push the pace Parker split 1:56.7 to give
MIT the lead for good. Hoskin, having placed fourth in the 800 earlier with a
2:04.77, ran a much more competitive race in the relay. Hoskin split 29.1,
60.6, 1:32.1 and 2:03.4 to hold onto the lead. Kiggins threw down a 1:56.5
anchor to bring MIT in under the 8:00 mark with a 7:59.43.

The women won 12 of the 19 events. Choosing not to enter the 4x200 and 4x400
events, the Engineers only lost five of the events they entered. Scoring 107
points just in the six field events, the ladies totally dominated their
opponents. With all those victories there was only one double winner and that
was Louise van den Heuvel '14. After dominating the Mile Run with a 5:07.13
wire to wire victory, van den Heuvel returned in the 1000, supplying another
victory, icing it with a 33 second final 200 to win in 3:02.74. Backing van
den Heuvel up in the 1000 were impressive finishes by Christina Wicker '17
with a third place 3:05.71 and a fourth place 3:08.31 by Nadia Lucas '17.

In the Pole Vault, Cimmy Virdi '16 won easily with a height of 11-8. Joanna
Chen '15 placed second at 10-10. Abby Klein '14 claimed third at 10-6 and Jen
Tylock '17 earned fourth at 10-0. The 1-2-3-4 finish was a nice way to start
the meet. The High Jump was almost as impressive. Preethi Vaidyanathan '15 and
Jackie Konopka '14 both cleared 5-3 and both had excellent attempts at 5-5.
Vaidyanathan won on misses with Konopka second. Stephanie Guo '17, performing
an unofficial pentathlon (60HH, SP, LJ, HJ, 800), which permits her to qualify
for the New England Division III Championship should she reach 2500 points,
earned a tie for third at 5-1. Natalie Alper placed fifth at 5-1.

The horizontal jumps went almost as well as the vertical jumps. In the Long
Jump Konopka did win, and did so with a huge personal best of 17-6. There was
magic in the pit during this event as Stephanie Birkhimer '14 also jumped to a
monster PR, hers a 16-9 3/4 good for third place. Not to be left out, Michelle
Johnson '15 also jumped to a personal best, hitting the sand at 16-6 to earn
sixth place. Johnson won the Triple Jump with a season best 35-11 1/2.
Veronica Szklarzewski '15, got back going in the right direction with a 33-6
1/2 effort to place fifth and Birkhimer garnered sixth place at 33-3 3/4.

Ellen Liverpool '15 cannot possibly have personal bests every week in the
Weight Throw, but do not tell her that. For the third week in a row Liverpool
improved her mark, this time throwing 49-5 3/4 to move to third on the MIT
all-time list and come in second in the meet. Ashley Wheeler '15 did not throw
a PR, but it was close as she placed third at 45-11 1/4. Jackie Vahey '17 took
fifth place with a nice personal best of 42-6 3/4 and Isabella Stuopis '16
threw 40-11 1/2 for sixth place. Stuopis reversed her position in her primary
event, the Shot Put, winning in a new varsity record of 43-2 1/4. Vahey placed
second with a personal best of 39-0 1/4. Christine Labaza '14 fought for fifth
place and got it with a 33-9 1/2 throw.

On the track, MIT started things off with a 1-2-3 finish in the 5K, the first
final for the running events. Elaine McVay '15 took the lead at the beginning
and did not look back, running an excellent early season time of 17:45.06.
Maryann Gong '17 was with McVay, occasionally helping to lead, through 2800
meters, but then fell off. Nevertheless, Gong continued to run hard, finishing
in second in 18:17.22. Shivani Kaushal '15 had her best race of the year as
she ran 18:51.98, good for third place. In the 3000, Heather Sweeney '16
continued to amaze as she ran an enormous personal best of 10:29.05 for second
place. Nicole Zeinstra '16 continued her comeback from injury with a 10:41.02
fourth place.

Tech took first and second in both the 60 and 60HH. In the 60, Szklarzewski
ran a personal best of 8.12 to take the victory. Jackie Brew '14 took second
with the same time, a season best for her. In the hurdles, Brew won in a
season best 9.19 while Konopka ran 9.36. Brew also earned a second in the 200
with a season best 26.53. Kendra Knittel '17 did not win an event, but she
easily had the best meet of the young season with a 62.09 for second in the
400 and 27.21 in the 200 to claim fourth.

Cindy Huang won the 800, taking the lead at the start, pushing the pace for a
first 400 in 69 and pretty much holding that to a 2:20.10 victory. Guo placed
third with a 2:31.10. After a 71 first 400 her body would not cooperate,
unable to go faster than an 80 second final 400.

MIT's final victory came in the final event, the 4x800 relay. Gong led things
off very well, dropping a 2:22.5 leadoff leg. Wicker started well with a 34
first 200, but then fell immediately to 38 second laps for the remainder of
the race, splitting 2:29.0. Huang ran similarly, but finished with a 40 second
final 200 to run 2:28.2. van den Heuvel did not let anyone down as her 2:23.6
was an excellent third effort of the day. The cumulative time of 9:43.47 was
not too impressive but should get the team into the fast section of DIII's.

Guo finished her five events with over 2900 points, a total that will not only
qualify for the event, but should score pretty high, and those marks were not
even her best.

Next week, MIT will split up the squad, sending Konopka and Birkhimer to
Harvard for a pentathlon, along with Mizerak and Adrian Samsel '16 in the
heptathlon, taking most of the oval runners to BU for the John Thomas
Invitational and keeping most field event athletes at MIT to compete in the
Art Farnham Invitational. With no team scoring opportunities the Engineers
will be competing for top performances and qualifying for the various
championships.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Gong Sets Varsity and Freshman Record in 3K to Lead Outstanding Distance
Performances

December 7, 2013

MIT sent three women and one male to the Boston University Season Opener. All
four were cross country runners who were ready to get a nice 3K time in,
hoping to possibly qualify for the NCAA Division III Championship, but
certainly qualifying for all other championships.

The women were first on the schedule. The trio of Maryann Gong '17, Louise van
den Heuvel '14 and Brooke Johnson 'G were planning on running 78-79 second
quarters to finish somewhere between 9:45 and and 9:52.

The section was pretty much all Boston College and MIT runners and all eight
went with the pace set by van den Heuvel. At the 1600 mark the pack hit 5:15
with six runners still in the main pack, three from Boston College and the
trio from MIT. One of the BC runners held onto the pace while everyone else
faded to 80 second 400's for the next 800 meters. Gong made a move to go after
the leader, briefly moving into second place, but fell back to third despite a
final 200 in 37 for a new varsity and freshman MIT record of 9:52.74. van den
Heuvel was close behind in fifth with a time of 9:56.28. Johnson, suffering
from plantar fasciitis was unable to hold on in the last 800, ending up with a
very respectable 10:10.14. All three easily qualified for all championships
with a set standard. The NCAA Championship has no standard, instead taking the
top 17 performances in each field for the women (15 for the men) and the 3K is
a new event so one can only guess that 9:52 will be close, although the six
second indexing penalty for banked track times may put the time out of the
eventual top 17.

Justin Bullock '14 was the lone MIT representative for the men. Last year in
this meet he had set the MIT record of 8:19.12. After a difficult finish to
his cross country season Bullock was hoping the return to the track would
bring back similar success as he experienced last season.

The pace was fast as the leader went out in 64 and maintained that pace. The
pack strung out with Bullock running 66-67 pace back in sixth place. Nothing
changed for the first 1200, then Bullock fell to 68 pace as he tried to
maintain contact with the fifth place runner. Even though he was tightening
up, Bullock managed to continue 68 pace and was even able to finish with a 32
final 200, giving him a 8:22.20 final time, the third fastest time in MIT
history and a performance that may be fast enough to qualify for Nationals.

The Engineers, beginning exams a week from Monday, will not compete again
until their annual Alumni Meet on January 4.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Lee, Stuopis, van den Heuvel and Wicker Lead Engineers With MIT Records in
Final Tuneup Before Championships

February 15, 2014

With the MIT squad split between BU's Scarlet and White Invitational and the
Tufts Cupid Invite, most oval runners were at Boston University, and all field
events, along with sprinters, hurdlers and some oval runners were at Tufts.

Louise van den Heuvel '14 started things off for the women, racing the 800 for
the first time this year. The pace was fast from the outset with the leaders
taking out the first 200 in 30. Cindy Huang '15 and van den Heuvel were both
out in 31.5, running in good position. The second lap slowed slightly, but not
by much as both MIT runners hit 64.0 at the 400. As the trail group fell away
from the leaders, van den Heuvel started her move, blowing by Huang at the 550
mark and taking aim on the leaders. She crushed the final 200, took the
victory and the MIT record with a monster PR of 2:11.98. Huang backed off when
her teammate passed her, but still ran a respectable 2:16.82

Harrison Hunter '15, took to the track in the men's 800. Having taken a little
over a week off from hard efforts after getting hit by a car while on his bike
and injuring his back, Hunter was anxious to get back to racing.
Uncharacteristically, he went towards the front after a 27.6 first 200. With
the pace fast in 55.9 and 1:25.0 splits Hunter began to feel the pain. He
initially tried to fight it, but then lost his competitiveness. He still
finished in 1:55.57, but could have run 1:53.

The 400 was next for the Engineers. States Lee had two reasons to run fast.
The first was to make up for his race last weekend when he got stuck in lane
two the entire second lap, yet still ran 48.58. The second reason was to go
after the MIT record of 48.46, held by the legendary Ayisi Makatiani '90. Lee
was in the fast section, so getting the break was not a given. In lane six,
Lee squeezed into second as he hit the 200 mark in 22.6. Lee almost made a
move on the backstretch but then thought better of it, holding his kick until
the end of the final turn. He was not able to get the win, but did get the
record, by .01, running 48.45. Many of the other 400 runners were dealing with
bronchial and sinus infections, either not racing or unable to run fast.

In the 200, Jackie Brew '14, who earlier in the day had run 8.97 in the 60HH,
which ties her for seventh on the NCAA Division III list, came over to BU to
race the one lapper. She ran a wonderful PR of 25.25, which puts her ninth on
the NCAA Division III list. Kendra Knittel '17 ran a PR of her own, racing to
a 25.94.

The 1000 was next, and MIT athletes put on a show. On the women's side,
Christina Wicker '17, was focused on getting out and taking control of the
race. A rabbit jumped into the race and helped no one as she ran much too fast
for anyone's benefit. However, Wicker was not aware of the situation and
followed the rabbit to a 30. first 200. As Wicker approached the end of the
first lap she saw her split on the clock and realized it was much too fast.
This error combined with the fact the meet had moved ahead of schedule, not
permitting Wicker to complete her warm-up, would have mentally destroyed most
competitors. Wicker took it in stride, adjusted her pace, and proceeded to hit
splits of 66, 1:43 and 2:20. She was fading at the finish but still managed a
35 final 200 for a new MIT freshman and varsity record of 2:55.87. Rick Paez
'15, who has floundered in the middle distance - distance events since his
arrival at MIT, took a shot at the 800 for the first time last week and
delivered a 1:59 on MIT's flat track. The confidence he shows in these shorter
races is a complete 180 from his previous competitiveness. In the 1000, Paez
came through the 800 in 1:59 and kept it going, completing the five laps in
2:29.82.

Meanwhile, over at Tufts, more amazing performances were taking place.
Isabella Stuopis '16 added nearly a foot to her PR and MIT record, placing
second at 44-8 3/4. Stuopis is now eighth on the national list and ranked
first in New England Division III. Also throwing well in the Shot, Ken Cooper
'15 threw 52-11.

In the Weight Throw, Cooper threw a personal best of 61-4 1/4. Kevin Kusch '17
had nearly a three foot PR of 45-7. Ashley Wheeler '15 threw a personal best
of 48-1 1/4. Stephanie Riocci '16 also threw a PR and moved into the MIT top
10 list with her 41-1 1/2 performance.

As usual at this time of year, MIT vaulters owned the event. Cimmy Virdi '16
won the event at 12-1 1/2. Abby Klein '14 vaulted a PR of 11-9 3/4 to move to
a tie for 12th on the NCAA list. Also for the women, Joanna Chen '15 cleared a
PR of 11-5 3/4 and Madeleine Waller '17, in the final opportunity to get it
done, cleared 10-0 to qualify for the New England Division III Championship.
For the men, Ben Schreck '15 won the event at 15-7. Schreck is ranked fourth
on the NCAA list with a vault of 16-0 3/4.

In the men's Triple Jump, Carrington Motley '16 returned to his competitive
self, having a wonderful series of jumps, winning with a new indoor PR of 47-2
1/2, which puts him in 11th on the NCAA Division III list. Angel Echevarria
'16 tied his personal best of 46-3 1/4.

Adrian Samsel '16, primarily a multi-event athlete, jumped 21-2 1/2 in the
Long Jump to qualify for the New England Division III Championship.

Alexandra Shade '17 ran a freshman record in the 600, despite going out in 30
seconds for the first 200. Her 1:40.77 was nearly a two second improvement.

Brian Gilligan '17 did not qualify for any championship, but his personal best
performance of 15:46.63 in the 5K is certainly one of the most competitive
efforts by anyone on the team.

Next week, the men are at home where they will attempt to defend their New
England Division III title. The women will be at Springfield College to try to
claim first place after finishing second the past three years.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Johnson Leads Team for Second Day in Succession

March 7, 2014

Day one of the ECAC Division III Championship brought mixed results for the
MIT Engineers. On the bright side, Michelle Johnson '15 showed what bringing
the right attitude can do as she again set the MIT record, for the second time
in two days, jumping 37-6 to move up to 14th on the NCAA list, making it a
wait and see if she stays in the top 17 that get selected to compete at
Nationals next week.

The other highlight has Jackie Brew '14 advancing to the finals of the 60HH,
running 9.06 in the trials. The finals did not go so well as she finished
eighth in 9.38

Few others seemed to bring that same attitude. In the Men's Shot Put, Ken
Cooper '15 fouled out, as did Angel Echevarria '16 in the Men's Triple Jump.
Ben Schreck '15 no-heighted in the Pole Vault, but at least he had the scary
experience of his pole breaking on him on his first attempt to partially blame
it on.

While no one else threw down a personal best, they did demonstrate a readiness
to compete at a high level. Isabella Stuopis '16 earned second place in the
Shot Put, throwing 43-9 1/4. Stephanie Birkhimer '14 continued her string of
strong performances, jumping 35-10 1/4, just missing finals. Carrington Motley
'16 was unable to bring the right stuff in his final opportunity to improve
his 15th ranked position. His jump of 45-7 did not even make finals.

The Pole Vault went reasonably well for the other vaulters. Cimmy Virdi '16
lost the vault in a jump-off after clearing 12-4 3/4 and then missing 12-9
three times despite being over the bar every time. Joanna Chen '15 cleared
11-1 as did Abby Klein '14. Jennifer Tylock '17 and Sherry Wan '16 both
cleared 10-7 1/4. On the men's side, Jordan Mizerak '14 cleared 14-8 and
looked very good over 15-2 although he did not clear that height.

Stephanie Guo '17 and Adrian Samsel '16 were giving their respective multi-
event specialty one more try. Both competed relatively well, but neither well
enough to improve their previous score. Guo scored 3075 points to place sixth
while Samsel scored 4651 points to earn third place.

Day two had mixed results for MIT. On the positive side, Louise van den Heuvel
'14 tuned up for Nationals with another win, leading from start to finish in
4:58.71. Ellen Liverpool '15 did not place but threw very well in the Weight
Throw, tossing the 20 lb. weight 50-0 1/2. Preethi Vaidyanathan '15 jumped
very well, clearing 5-4 1/2, tying the MIT varsity record. She also had strong
attempts at 5-6 1/2. Harrison Hunter '15 placed sixth in the 800, winning his
section in 1:55.11. Rick Paez '15 placed eighth in the 1000 with a 2:32.27.

The negative side of the ledger was unfortunately larger than it should be in
the championship season. Christina Wicker '17 faded badly after the 800 in
2:28, finishing in 5:15.65. Cindy Huang did not fair much better, although it
was not her fault, falling after the 600 mark, she struggled in at 2:21.62.

For the men, Ken Cooper fouled out in his second event, the Weight Throw. Mac
Gager '14 and Nick Diamantoni '15 did not get the job done in the 400, running
51.17 and 51.40 respectively.

For most of those competing it is the end of the season. With results around
the country still coming in on this final day to qualify, it looks as though
MIT has the following nationals qualifiers:

Women

Cimmy Virdi - Pole Vault, Isabella Stuopis - Shot Put, Jackie Konopka -
Pentathlon, Jackie Brew - 60HH, Louise van den Heuvel - 800, Mile, 3K, Maryann
Gong - Mile, 3K, DMR (Christina Wicker, Stephanie Guo, Cindy Huang, Maryann
Gong), Michelle Johnson - Triple Jump

Men

Sam Parker - 800, Ken Cooper - Weight Throw, Shot Put, States Lee - 400, Ben
Schreck - Pole Vault, 4x400 Relay (Lee, Michael Kaba, Derek Barnes, Tyler
Singer-Clark)



RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
P |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Lee and 4x400 Improve NCAA Marks at IC4A Championship

March 8, 2014

Four MIT athletes made their way to Boston University's banked track to
participate in the IC4A Championship, the oldest men's track and field
conference in the country, mostly made up of Division I colleges. States Lee
'16, Michael Kaba '16, Derek Barnes '16 and Tyler Singer-Clark were there to
improve their 4x400 Relay time in hopes of making it into one of the two top
sections of the 4x400 at Nationals next Saturday. Going into the meet, they
were ranked sixth. The NCAA takes 12 relay teams, having a three section final
with four teams per section. Only eight teams make All American and running
out of the third section may make attaining that goal a bit difficult. While
there, Lee would try to improve his chances in the open 400 and Singer-Clark
would give the 200 a go.

In the 400, Lee got out well in 22.9, but did not get the break. However, the
pace was fast enough for him to keep his momentum. He finished well, posting a
PR and new MIT record of 48.36. This moved him up to 12th in the country. His
previous time of 48.45 would not have made it in.

Singer-Clark was not so fortunate. Once again he drew the worst lane, lane
three since they were only using 3, 4, 5 and 6. He was unable to improve on
his 22.10, this time running 22.21.

The 4x400 team had the misfortune to be in a heat where two of the five teams
scratched. It would be necessary to stay competitive with the lead team or MIT
could find themselves in limbo. Lee led off as usual. He did not get the break
but was in a great position. He waited too long to pass on the second
backstretch, cut his speed slightly and almost took the lead at the handoff,
running 48.4. Kaba got out well but slowed slightly as he turned to get the
handoff, causing a bigger gap to develop. Kaba did a nice job of staying with
the Cornell runner, closing the gap to five meters as they approached the
handoff. Once again, the handoff caused the gap to grow as Barnes also slowed
when he turned, losing significant ground to Cornell. Barnes brought the baton
around in 49.4 and Singer-Clark made a clean handoff. However, he was in no-
man's land, 20 meters behind the leader and over 20 meters ahead of the third
place team. Nevertheless, Singer-Clark ran a 48.5 to give MIT a cumulative
time of 3:14.98. While this time moved MIT up in the rankings two spots,
another team passed them to put them at fifth on the National list.

The Engineers will be traveling to Nebraska for the NCAA Division III
Championship, competing on Friday and Saturday.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Brew and Johnson Lead Way for Engineers at Last Chance Qualifier

March 6, 2014

On the final weekend of qualifying for the NCAA Division III Championship, MIT
was doing what everyone else was doing, chasing around for qualifying
performances. Fortunately, the best track and field venues are in Boston, so
travel was not part of the logistical problems for MIT. The first stop on the
weekend began at Tufts University, host of the Last Chance Qualifier.

Jackie Brew '14 continued her amazing improvement, knocking off .05 from her
season hurdle best. She won the 60HH in 6.88, equaling her all-time PR from
two years ago, prior to her foot problems. This time puts her number 10 on the
NCAA list.

In the women's Triple Jump, Michelle Johnson '15 also returned to her best
days from two years ago, breaking her own MIT record with a 37-0 1/2 jump to
claim the victory. Stephanie Birkhimer '14 also jumped a personal best,
hitting the sand at 36-04. Johnson is ranked 21st on the NCAA list with one
meet remaining to try and move up on the list where only the top 17 entries
for the women will get in.

In the Long Jump, Veronica Szklarzewski '15 jumped 17-3 1/4. Preethi
Vaidyanathan '15 cleared 5-01 in the High Jump. In the Weight Throw, Ellen
Liverpool '15 threw 48-03.

For the men, Benji Xie '15 was attempting to better his 5K time in hopes of
improving his chances for making the national field. The initial pace was
perfect and Xie looked very comfortable near the front. The 1600 time was 4:41
and at the 3200 mark it was 9:19 for a 4:38 second 1600. At this point Xie
dropped the field as they were no longer interested in maintaining the
rigorous pace. Xie continued to pound out the quarters, running 70 and 71
through 4000 meters. In the final 1000 the wheels came off the bus. At this
point Xie had about a 30 meter lead. His next 400 was a 73 and that allowed
the gap to close significantly as those who could no longer hold the pace
earlier began to pick it up now that they were close enough to the end to not
fear dying. His next 400 was a 76, which caused him to lose the lead. His last
200 was a painful 38 to finish in 14:47.96. Xie ran an excellent, gutsy race,
laying it on the line.

The final event for MIT was the men's DMR. MIT had run 9:57 earlier in the
year, but on a banked track. On a flat track the times would get a nine second
bump due to the indexing of banked tracks. If MIT could break 10:00 they
should have a great shot of making Nationals as only 12 relay teams are
accepted into the field. Sam Parker '15, already in the 800 field with his
1:51.56 corrected performance, was leading off in the 1200 leg. The pace went
out okay with 29.8 at the 200 mark, but Parker did his trademark move of
getting on the rail. The pace slowed, he could not get out, and suffered
through two laps, hitting the 600 in 1:32.1. The slow pace was too slow for
Parker, making his legs feel heavy, which messed him up even further. By the
time he handed off he had run a dismal 3:07.2. Mac Gager '14 ran an excellent
400, but even his 50.3 barely made a dent in the deficit. Harrison Hunter '15
ran the 800 leg and definitely brought his A game. However, he was not
patient, trying to make up too much, too soon. his 26.0 and 54.3 was just too
fast on the flat track. He faded a bit at the end, but was certainly
competitive with his 1:55.8. Chadd Kiggins '15 had to do his best to make up
ground. It was going to take a 4:07 at this point to give MIT a chance and
Kiggins knew it. Again, MIT was so far behind it was difficult to judge pace,
which Kiggins failed at. His 59.9 opening 400 was fun to watch, but it was not
going to end well. He stayed competitive with a 2:03 and 3:07, but his final
400 was a 70, ending the dream of making the Nationals in the DMR for a fourth
consecutive year.

Tomorrow many of MIT's athletes will be at the Reggie Lewis Center in Boston
for the ECAC Division III Championship.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Virdi Wins Pole Vault Title, MIT Earns 12 All America Awards, Women Place
Seventh

March 14-15, 2014

MIT took 17 athletes to the NCAA Division III Indoor Track & Field
Championship at the University of Nebraska, seven men and 10 women. The women,
taking advantage of their opportunities, performed extraordinarily well,
placing seventh with 22 points.

On day one, Jackie Konopka '14 was MIT's first competitor, competing in the
Pentathlon. Even though she placed sixth last year in this event, the field
was much better this year and her achilles tendon issues have prevented her
from training properly for weeks. Her rustiness showed in the first event, the
60HH. While she raced well, her start was slow. Nevertheless she ran 9.23. In
the High Jump she cleared 5-3 after a series of ugly warmups, putting her in
medal contention. However the Shot Put and Long Jump did not go in her favor,
putting her back in 11th place at that point. The final sub-event, the 800,
was difficult as her achilles was hurting her and she was out of contention.

While this was going on, Cimmy Virdi '16 was busy winning the national
championship in the Pole Vault. Coming in as the fifth seed Virdi passed until
12-1 1/2. She was clean at that height as well as 12-5 1/2. At 12-7 1/2 she
made it on her second attempt, but she was already in the lead on misses. At
12-9 1/2 and 12-11 1/2 she cleared the bar on her first attempt. Only Virdi
and Kalsey of Westminster cleared 12-11 1/2. Virdi went to a bigger pole at
13-1 1/2 but was not able to clear the height. However, neither was Kalsey,
giving the title to Virdi and a big 10 points for MIT.

Earlier, Louise van den Heuvel '14 cruised throughout the trials in the Mile
Run. She ran towards the front of the pack, just going with the flow. Running
75 second quarters for the first half. The pace slowed in the third quarter
and then picked up significantly in the final quarter to a 69. She finished
third in her section with a 4:57.80 to advance to the finals.

Jackie Brew '14, not seeded to score in the 60HH, ran a PR and MIT record 8.80
in the trials to squeeze into finals with the eighth fastest time.

Nearly five hours later, van den Heuvel was back on the track leading off the
Distance Medley Relay where the Engineers were seeded third. She picked up
right where she left off, running 3:33.0 for the 1200 to put MIT in third at
the handoff. Stephanie Guo '17 took the baton and went after it. Unfortunately
her 26.9 first 200 was a little fast for her. She held on the best she could,
handing off in a fine 59.5. Cindy Huang '15 did what she does best, getting
Tech back into the mix. Her 65.1 first 400 did just that and her overall split
of 2:14.1 kept her there. When Maryann Gong '17 grabbed the baton she had one
thing in mind, how can she win. The initial 400 was 72.1, but still three
teams came from way back to make it a six team race. The pace slowed to 2:29
and 3:45 before some teams fell off the back. In the final 400 Gong made her
move, but that just pushed the pace of the front two teams. Gong held tough,
moving into second place with 300 to go as she ran a 70 final 400 and a
cumulative 4:55.6 to give MIT second place and another eight points.

The men competed well on day one, but only had one point to show for it. Ben
Schreck '15 earned that point in the Pole Vault by garnering eighth place,
clearing 15-7 on his second attempt.

States Lee '16 was seeded 12th going into the 400 competition. Lee started in
the innermost lane, worked too hard in the first 200, coming through in 22.2
and had to break slightly as he got cut off going into the turn. This made the
final lap painful as he finished in 49.20, finishing 11th overall.

Ken Cooper '15 was not seeded to score, but MIT was hoping the big guy could
pop one. However, the competition was steep as it took a throw over 60' just
to make it to finals. His throw of 56-3 1/4 was far from his best this season.

Day two began with Michelle Johnson '15 in the Triple Jump and Isabella
Stuopis '16 in the Shot Put. Neither were seeded to score as Johnson was
seeded 14th and Stuopis was tied for 13th. Johnson finished in 10th at 37-0
1/2. Stuopis threw 43-6 3/4 to finish 13th.

Louise van den Heuvel was then up for her Mile Run final. She was in lane one
so she had to be careful of getting boxed in and she did not want to take the
lead so she eased to the middle of the pack. Here she remained for most of the
race as it was pretty strategic through splits of 75, 2:32 and 3:46. The
leaders took off and van den Heuvel just did not have the speed to match some
of the leaders. She closed in 71 and fought hard to gain seventh place in
4:57.82.

Jackie Brew was next in the 60HH Final. She stumbled coming out of the blocks,
nearly falling, but somehow regained her step and flew down the track. Her
hurdling was excellent as she closed on the pack. She placed seventh in 8.87.

MIT was now in fourth place with 22 points with the 3K still to go. In the 3K
MIT had a tired but game van den Heuvel and a relatively fresh Maryann Gong.
Gong had done this double two weeks ago and won the 3K in 9:42.48 at All New
Englands. This time she was unsure of the strategy and who to follow. She
looked good in the front of the chase pack as they went out in 78 and then
slowed to 81. The pace then picked up as someone broke away from the chase
group with a 77. Gong went with her but then appeared unsure. Whenever she
starts thinking she ends up giving up and that happened again tonight as she
ended up last in 10:19.14. van den Heuvel raced as well as she could, but was
unable to place better than 10th in 9:56.45.

Three teams passed MIT, although it only took 26 points to be one of the top
four and on the podium. Ending up in seventh marked a successful end to a
successful season. The Engineers should be proud of their performances.

The men only had Cooper coming back in the Shot Put, and the 4x400 Relay.
Cooper did not appear competitive, and even though the field overall did not
perform well, he could only manage a 51-0 throw to finish 10th.

The men were the fifth seeded team in the 4x400, racing in the second of the
three section final. States Lee led off, probably should have taken the break
at the 200, but did not. His lack of aggressiveness is not his style and this
hurt his overall performance. Nevertheless the sophomore still led off with a
48.9 to handoff in third. Michael Kaba '16, who had turned his ankle on
Thursday, ran a very conservative first 200 in 23.5. He was able to close some
ground on the second lap, but his 49.1 was a slower split than normal. Derek
Barnes '16 ran his best leg of his career, leading off with a 22.5 and closing
in 48.6 to put MIT in great position. Tyler Singer-Clark anchored the relay
and did not disappoint. He maintained MIT's position, finishing in 48.5 for a
cumulative time of 3:15.14. Although they were only third in their section,
they finished fourth overall to give Tech six total points in the meet.

In total, the Engineers earned 12 All America awards. It is time for the
outdoor season to start and MIT is wasting no time as the distance runners
will take part in the Gerry Gravel Invitational at Westfield State College
next Saturday, the day before they head to California for their Spring
Training Trip.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**Men's Track & Field Dominates New England Division III Championship**

February 21-22, 2014

MIT hosted the New England Division III Indoor Track & Field Championship this
weekend, and as defending champion, had every intention of defending the title
and their home. Going into the meet as heavy favorites, the only concern for
the Engineers was getting to comfortable with their position and not bringing
their A game. The leadership on the team did not allow that to happen as from
beginning to end there were almost no competitive situations for MIT that did
not turn out well. In the end the Engineers won with 138 points to 94 for
runner-up Tufts, with Bates in third with 59 points.

Tech track & field only won two of the 20 events, although they scratched from
the 4x400 relay due to how far ahead they were at the end of the meet, which
they were favored to win. They also finished second in six others and had
multiple place winners (top eight) in eight events. It was truly a dominating
performance.

Things got started on Friday with the first four events of the Heptathlon. MIT
was seeded to get nine points from Jordan Mizerak '14 and Adrian Samsel '16
using the eight place scoring system of 10-8-6-5-4-3-2-1. Literally and
figuratively, right out of the blocks, Samsel showed he came to play, running
a personal best 7.42 for the 60 meter dash. Mizerak, missing a good bit of
training the past few weeks due to a stress reaction, was nevertheless only
.04 off his best, also running 7.42. In the second event, the Long Jump, both
popped personal bests, with Samsel jumping 21-6 3/4 and Mizerak leaping 20-10
1/2. The magic continued for Samsel when he threw the shot 37-6 1/2 for yet
another PR to move into the lead. Mizerak suffered a 28-11 1/4 toss to lose
ground, falling to seventh place. In the final event of the day, Samsel just
missed a PR, but did get a season best by jumping 6-0 3/4 in the High Jump
while Mizerak held his own, clearing 5-10 1/2.

Saturday morning the 12 hepathletes were back at it, starting with the 60HH.
Samsel started where he left off, running a PR of 8.78. Mizerak was quite a
bit off his best, but did not lose any places overall with his 9.32. The Pole
Vault was the next sub-event, something Mizerak had been waiting for. Mizerak
could not miss and over two and half hours later, he finally ended it with a
14-11 successful vault, a huge personal best. Samsel, of course, vaulted a PR
of 11-11 3/4. Mizerak moved up to fourth while Samsel had a solid hold on
first. The final event, the 1000 meters saw solid performances from both
athletes with Samsel running 2:48.18 and Mizerak crossing the line in 2:52.51.
The 15 points gave MIT a nice start and a lead they would never relinquish.
Samsel's total of 4796 is ranked 13th on the NCAA list.

Both the Long Jump and the Weight Throw started at the beginning of the meet.
In the Weight Throw, Ken Cooper '15, ranked fifth in the country for Division
III, and second in the meet, threw 60-11 1/2 to match his seed, earning eight
points. Carrington Motley '16 and a fatigued Samsel added seven more points by
placing fifth and sixth respectively with personal bests of 21-7 1/4 in the
Long Jump, an event in which MIT was not seeded to score.

On the track, the trials of the 60HH and 200 were taking place. Michael Kaba
'16, not seeded to make finals or to score in the hurdles, defied the odds,
running 8.56 to make the finals. Later in the meet, after he also qualified in
the 200 with a trials run of 22.94 on the tight-turn, flat 200 meter track, he
placed fourth with a new personal best of 8.36. Also qualifying for the finals
in the 200 were Tyler Singer-Clark '14, who ran 22.67 and States Lee '16,
running 23.03.

After the hurdles, the 400 took place. This is certainly one of MIT's strong
events, but Kaba was mentally fatigued after two hurdle races and his 200
trial, and two others were either sick or just coming off a sickness.
Nevertheless, Singer-Clark and Lee came back from the 200 trial, placing
second and third respectively, running amazing flat track times of 49.81 and
49.83. Derek Barnes '16 earned eighth place in 51.06.

In the 600, Mac Gager '14, who has suffered through being sick multiple times
this season, pulled it together to finish fifth in a PR 1:23.47.

The 800 was a loaded field, but MIT's most versatile middle-distance runner,
Sam Parker '15 was hoping to win. It did not appear he truly believed he could
win, but the nationally ranked runner went out with the leaders in 57 at the
400. He did not seem to own the race and it showed as his opponents dictated
the strategy. Parker held on for a very respectable fourth place in 1:56.37.
Harrison Hunter '15 had difficulty staying focused on racing at the end, but
hung pretty tough to earn eighth place in 1:57.48.

The 1000 meter race looked more like short track speed skating, as half-way
through the fast section, the fourth place runner went down, knocking out four
other runners as well as they all hit the track hard. Fortunately, MIT was in
first and third at the time and that is where they stayed. Chadd Kiggins '15
defended his title, winning in 2:30.11 and Rick Paez '15, the team's candidate
for most improved, ran 2:32.85 for third.

About this time the Triple Jump was wrapping up. Motley, ranked 12th in the
country, earned his seed with a third place effort of 45-1 3/4. In one of the
few events where MIT had a seeded athlete not score, Angle Echevarria '16,
after fouling twice by the smallest of margins, had what looked like a clean
jump and then buckled on his final phase, not making the pit.

Cooper, also seeded second in the Shot Put, had his second best throw of the
season to place second. The ninth ranked shot putter nationally threw 54-7
1/2.

In the Pole Vault, the final field event for MIT, Mizerak had little juice
left, no-heighting. Both Ian Perry '17 and Marshall Wentworth '16 cleared PR's
of 13-11 1/4 to tie for fifth and seventh respectively, earning MIT more
unexpected points. Ben Schreck '15, seeded first and ranked sixth in NCAA
Division III at 16-0 3/4, was not able to put it all together at 15-5,
settling for second place at 14-11.

The 200 finals were next, and Singer-Clark, seeded second and coming back
after the 400, earned that place with a 22.53 performance. Kaba came back and
ran a determined 22.94 for fourth place. Lee, also returning after the 400,
placed fifth in 22.98.

MIT was not seeded to score in the 3K, but Matt Deyo '16 came close. After
moving up in the pack too early, Deyo, who is not the best at following race
plans, fell back quite a bit, only to finish hard in ninth place in a PR of
8:44.92.

Tech was seeded to score over 20 points in the 5K, but the five MIT runners
did not work well together, instead seeming to work very independently, which
certainly cost them. The early pace was relatively fast, but not fast enough
as they were hitting 4:52 per 1600 through the 3200 meter mark. Unfortunately,
Roy Wedge '14 was doing almost all of this work. Benji Xie '15, the top seed,
made his move with just under 800 meters to go after running 4:44 for the
third metric mile. He was not able to hold it as four opponents passed him in
the final straight, placing him fifth in 15:04.46. Wedge finished in sixth in
15:05.31 and Allen Leung '15, who had fallen early in the race, earned seventh
place in 15:09.80.

At this point MIT had a large enough lead that they did not have to run any of
the three relays. Pulling the 4x400 due to the large volume of work already
run by the members of the top relay, the decision was made to compete in the
Distance Medley Relay and the 4x800 Relay. In the DMR, Kiggins, running tight,
came back with a solid 3:11.9 leadoff 1200 leg to put MIT in a distant second
place. Danny Newman '17 delivered a 53.1 split in the 400 to get MIT a little
closer. Andrew Mullen '17 ran a fine 1:58.2 to close the gap to about 10
meters. Nick Matthews '17 ran a very game anchor 1600 leg. Going for the win,
he went out in 62.2, just staying close to the lead runner from Amherst
College. He slowed to 2:08 at the 800, but was still 10-15 meters down. In the
third quarter it looked like he might close up the gap even though the pace
slowed to 3:15. In the final 400 the early pace wiped Matthews out, slowing to
4:27, but maintaining second place in a cumulative time of 10:30.83.

The final event of the meet was the 4x800. MIT had a team that could win, but
some of the members on the team were not the sort who usually doubled up well,
so where there competitiveness was was yet to be seen. Hunter led off, looking
very good through 400 meters in 58.5. However, that was the end of it as he
began his trademark action of shaking his head when he loses competitiveness.
His 2:03.8 put MIT in serious arrears. Parker took the baton and made up a lot
of ground, running a very smart race to split a 1:56.9 leg. Just as MIT was
back in it, Gager lost it, running a 67 second 400 after a very competitive
first 400 in 59. Totally out of it, Paez got the baton and did what many
others would not in that situation, he raced. Catching people and moving up in
the field, Paez ran 1:57.4 to get MIT one more point, placing eighth in
8:04.27.

The Engineers will now focus on the NCAA Division III Championship, March
14-15 at the University of Nebraska. In the meantime, the NEICAAA
Championship, pitting all New England Division I, II and III colleges against
one another at Boston University are this coming weekend and the following
weekend will split between the ECAC Division III Championship at Reggie Lewis
and a Last Chance Qualifier at Tufts University.



RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Gong and Relays Lead Way for Tech Track

March 1, 2014

For the most part, the first day of the NEICAAA Championship hosted by Boston
University was nothing spectacular for MIT Track & Field. This annual
championship pits the Division I, II and III colleges against one another for
New England Champion bragging rights.

After going to war the past weekend, giving it all to win the New England
Division III Championship, and with the NCAA Division III Championship two
weeks away, the Engineers were using this opportunity, not as a team scoring
event, but more as a chance to qualify individuals for the upcoming NCAA
Championship. Giving the distance runners the weekend off, mostly the field
events and shorter running events were being contested by MIT.

The men's competition was the first half of the day. Right from the start it
did not appear that the MIT athletes were hungry enough to get past the
emotional fatigue suffered from loading up the previous weekend. They were
competing well and trying their best, but qualifying for nationals for most
individuals takes a certain emotional engagement that is difficult to come by
and can be very draining. The Tech athletes had it last weekend, but not this
weekend.

If that was not bad enough, a particularly nasty stomach bug was making its
way through the team. A couple would try to compete anyway, but Ken Cooper
'15, MIT's nationally ranked thrower, was not able to compete. In the 60HH,
Michael Kaba '16, who set a PR the weekend before, running 8.36, got a great
start, looking strong over the first two hurdles. He then was hit by the
runner next to him and lost his edge, finishing in 8.89.

In the 200, Tyler Singer-Clark '14 was hoping to improve on his 22.10 and move
up on the national ranking list, but was seeded in lane three, allowing a very
poor chance of improving. He raced well, but only managed a 22.14. Kaba
returned and ran a PR of 22.35 even though he was also seeded in lane three.
Not doing so well, still recovering from his illness from last week, was Nick
Diamantoni '15, who ran 22.72.

The 400 brought about similar results. States Lee '16 ran 48.96, but just did
not seem to have what it took to make it to the finals or win his heat. Mac
Gager '14 was the only long sprinter to produce a personal best. He improved
his time to 50.06. Derek Barnes '16, who has not recovered from his long bout
with a respiratory/sinus infection was only able to run 50.38. Diamantoni ran
50.44.

Sam Parker '15 had the right attitude, in that he was trying to win his heat
to advance to the finals, but again seemed to lack that spark that is
necessary to really compete at one's best. After running a nearly flawless
strategic race and coming through the 600 in 1:24.0, he faded in the end to
finish in 1:53.26, just missing the cut for finals. Harrison Hunter '15
performed well for all but 100 meters. At the area where he normally starts
doubting his ability, he fell back from the group, but then reasserted himself
and fought back to finish in 1:54.54. Chadd Kiggins '15 was currently
suffering with the gastrointestinal plight and faded badly after the 400,
finishing in 1:59.14.

Rick Paez '15 wanted to improve on his 1000 meter time of 2:29.82, but mostly
wanted to make the finals in the event. Still learning how to run in the
higher profile meets with better competition, Paez used too much energy
fighting the competition in order to get and keep his spot right off the
leader's shoulder. This extra work bit him in the end as he was not able to
kick with the rest of the field. His final time was 2:33.21. Andrew Mullen '17
let his impatience get the best of him, taking the lead in his 1000 heat. The
slow pace was not to his liking, but he was thinking more about time than
winning his heat. The outcome was Mullen fading at the end due to his early
move, but still running a personal best of 2:33.61.

In the field events, Adrian Samsel '16 was behind the board in the Long Jump,
only jumping 20-6 1/4. In the Pole Vault, Ben Schreck '15 gave Tech its first
points by placing third with a vault of 15-9 1/4. Jordan Mizerak '14,
primarily a multi-event athlete, cleared 14-3 1/2.

The women saw a very good performance from Jackie Brew '14 in the 60HH. She
started off running a heat where the electronic clock never started, which was
a good thing because she was third in that version. About thirty minutes later
she returned to win her heat in a very fast 8.96. Boston University's infield
is a bit soft, which does not yield fast times, so running just .04 off her
best was very good. In the semi-finals she was unable to advance, running
9.25. Later in the 200, her bad cold got the best of her, so despite having
lane six she only ran 25.67.

In the pole vault, Cimmy Virdi '16 placed third for MIT, clearing 11-11 3/4.
Joanna Chen '15 cleared 10-11 3/4 and Abby Klein '14 jumped 10-6. Jenn Tylock
'17 no heighted for the second week in succession.

In the Long Jump, Veronica Szklarzewski '15 jumped 16-10 3/4 and in the Weight
Throw, Ellen Liverpool fouled out with two sector fouls and one toe foul.

The Distance Medley Relay was the final event of day one. Louise van den
Heuvel '14, possibly suffering from a slight concussion earlier in the week
was not going to be racing. This meant MIT needed to substitute Christina
Wicker '17 in at the 1200 leg and mover Maryann Gong '17 to the 1600 anchor
leg. The team was sitting third in the national rankings with an 11:55, but
there was little chance of that time holding up as one of the top 12 times
when selection is done. Wicker looked very good early in the 1200, splitting
69.3 for the 400. She slowed too much for the second 400, hitting the 800 in
2:24.3. She fell even further back to seventh in the final 400, as she
finished in 3:40.2. Starting third from last, Stephanie Guo '17 did a
fantastic job of keeping MIT in the race as she ran a personal best leg of
58.5, although she did get passed, pushing MIT back to eighth. Cindy Huang
'15, the only upperclassman in the event for MIT, took the baton at the back
of the field absolutely buried behind the chase group. It took her 600 meters
to catch up as she hit that mark in 1:38.0, then passed four teams to hand off
in third pace in a huge PR of 2:12.6. Gong immediately made a strong move
towards catching the leaders. Her 70.6 first 400 was a little ambitious and
probably had her thinking she could not hold it. She moved into second place
but started slowing as first place was too far ahead to gauge pace. Her second
400 was 74.7, much too slow for what the team needed. In the next 400 she fell
back to sixth place with a 76.1. In the final 400 her competitiveness
resurfaced and she smoked a 71.9 to move the team back up to third with a
4:53.3 leg to give the team a new season best of 11:44.99. By the end of the
meet this time was good for third on the NCAA list while the 11:55 was 13th.

On day two, the first event for MIT was the women's High Jump. Preethi
Vaidyanathan '15 needed a 5'6 1/2 jump to give her a solid chance at making
Nationals. However, today was not the day as she no-heighted.

The men's Triple Jump was next. MIT was represented by both Carrington Motley
'16 and Angel Echevarria '16. Motley ended up earning sixth place with a jump
of 47-1. Echevarria got one fair jump in and it was 45-6 1/4. In the women's
Triple Jump, Stephanie Birkhimer '14 jumped 35-10 1/2 and Michelle Johnson '15
made it to 35-5.

Isabella Stuopis '16 placed fifth in the Shot Put, throwing 43-7, finishing as
the top Division III thrower.

On the track, Maryann Gong was back, this time in the 3K. She ran a flawless
race, moving towards the front, hanging out in third place as the group came
through the 1600 in 5:11. As the pace slowed slightly to 80 seconds and then
another quarter at 79, Gong took control, moving to the front with 600 meters
to go. She ran a 75 and then closed with a 36 200 to win in 9:42.48. Her time
is a new MIT record and ranks her number three on the NCAA Division III list.

The final event for MIT was the men's 4x400 relay. The quartet of States Lee
'16, Michael Kaba '16, Derek Barnes '16 and Tyler Singer-Clark '14 were ready
to prove they were the best in New England. Lee did his job, putting his team
just off of first and second place with a 48.6 opening leg. Kaba started off
great despite a poor handoff. He tried to pass into first at the end of the
first backstretch, but was unable to do so. After cutting his momentum and
getting hung out in lane two, he made another huge effort on the homestretch,
but again was denied. At this point there was not much left and he slipped
badly off the leaders, finishing his leg in 49.6. Barnes was standing dead
still when he received the baton and proceeded to run the first 200 in 22.7
from a dead stop. The second 200 did not go well as Barnes faded to fifth in
49.4. Singer-Clark did his best to make up the ground, but even his 47.8 could
only close the gap, but not actually passing anyone. The team's 3:15.58 was a
season best, but with two New England Division III teams beating them they
slipped to sixth place on the NCAA list.

Next week, the team will onc again split up. On Thursday, a few will take
advantage of the bonus time given to flat track times when they visited Tufts
University for their Last Chance Qualifier. On Friday and Saturday, most of
the rest of the MIT athletes will race at the Reggis Lewis track, the host of
the ECAC Division III Championship. On Saturday and Sunday a handful of the
men's team will race back at BU in the IC4A Championship. That will be the
final weekend prior to the start of the NCAA Division III Championship.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**Engineers Remain Undefeated - Dominate Despite Looking Flat Early**

February 1, 2014

MIT traveled to Tufts University on Saturday for the opportunity to compete
against some strong opponents, particularly host Tufts, while getting the
opportunity to run on arguably the fastest flat track in New England. The
Tufts Stampede would be the final scoring meet of the regular season for MIT,
so winning the meet would allow both the men and women to finish the regular
season undefeated.

Based on the seeds prior to the meet, it appeared Tech would easily win both
meets. With the amazing performances the men and women achieved last week,
combined with the idea they could not lose, perhaps the Engineers were not as
mentally prepared to compete as they should have been. Based on the early
performances that certainly seemed to be the case.

The start of the meet began with the Men's Weight Throw and High Jump and the
Women's Shot Put and Pole Vault. While Ken Cooper '15 won the Weight with a
sub-par 56-1 3/4 and Cimmy Virdi '16 won the Pole Vault with a PR of 12-6,
there were very few strong performances by MIT in the four events. On the
track, the trials in the 60 and 60HH failed to produce the performances the
team expected although the Engineers were advancing to the finals. The 3000
meter race was the first running final, and even though MIT dominated the
event, the performances were nothing short of poor. Benji Xie '15 won the
men's event with an 8:46.36 and Ian Tolan '16 and Matt Deyo '16 placed third
and sixth respectively with times of 8:49.20 and 8:50.78. Xie should have been
at least 10 seconds faster, but looked fatigued at 5K pace. Maryann Gong '17
and Elaine McVay '15 placed first and second with 10:16.30 and 10:19.02, but
both times were pretty slow considering Gong ran 9:52 back in December. In the
Miler Run, Louise van den Heuvel '14 continued to dominate, winning in
5:02.75, but Christina Wicker '17 and Nadia Lucas '17 fell off the pedestrian
pace, struggling at the end. In the Men's Mile, one of three races set up with
rabbits, MIT's men just caved right at the start, producing inferior times of
4:25-4:32 for the five MIT competitors. After the milers failed to deliver it
was time to get the team together for a reevaluation of the matter at hand.

Fortunately, after that things began to turn around a bit. In the 60HH, Jackie
Brew '14 ran a season best, winning in 9.07 while Jackie Konopka '14 placed
second in 9.15. Stephanie Birkhimer '14, who had a superb day, ran a PR of
9.80 for sixth place. Although the 400 went well for both the men and women,
there was no way the times would compare with those run on the banked track of
Boston University last week. States Lee '16 remained undefeated against
Division III competition with a 50.46. Mac Gager '14 won the 600 in a season
best of 1:23.56.

In the 800, Wicker returned with a much better racing attitude, took the lead
after 300 meters and won going away in 2:19.80. In the men's race, the other
one with a rabbit, Sam Parker '15 got pulled out a little too fast, running 26
flat at the 200 split. His main competition used him until the final 150 and
then moved ahead for a 1:51 to Parker's 1:53.15. A slightly smarter race would
certainly have had him a second or more faster. The outstanding races
continued as Veronica Szklarzewski '15 popped a very fast 60 Meter Dash for
second place in 8.00. van den Heuvel took to the oval a second time with the
same results, a win, this time in the 1000 in a season best 2:59.97. Andrew
Mullen '17 earned his first victory of the season with a 2:36.31 performance
in the 1000. A 28.2 first 200 guaranteed a slow performance, but Mullen
competed well, managing a kick at the end to hold off his competitors. The men
dominated the 200 as they have done every week, taking five of the top six
places, with Tyler Singer-Clark '14 leading the way with a 22.68.

In the second round of field events, Ellen Liverpool '15, for the fifth week
in succession, threw a personal best in the Weight Throw with a 51-0 3/4
performance, good for second place in the meet and second place on MIT's all-
time list. Isabel Stuopis '16 broke her streak of personal bests and MIT
records, but still won the Shot Put, throwing 42-9 3/4. Cooper won his second
event, putting the shot 52-7 1/4. Alex Noakes '16 had a huge personal best,
adding over three feet for a new PR of 45-4 1/4. Preethi Vaidyanathan '15
saved her best for last, waiting till a jump off for first place in the High
Jump to clear 5-4 1/4, tying her best mark. Birkhimer continued to compete
well, winning the Triple Jump in 34-10 1/2.

Perhaps the best event of the meet for MIT, at least in terms of personal
bests, was the 5K. Nicole Zeinstra '16 was the sole entry for Tech and she
made the most of it, winning in a personal best of 18:09.94. Had she not
allowed the pace to slow to 5:57 for the second 1600 she probably would have
broken 18:00. She took the lead in the final 1600, speeding up to a 5:48
before closing in a 39 final 200. Roy Wedge '14 took advantage of a very fast
pace, found a rhythm of 72 second quarters and ran a PR of 14:48.02 for third
place. Allen Leung '15 also ran a personal best, placing fifth in 14:56.40.
That makes four MIT runners under 15:00 already this season.

The men ended up winning the 12 team meet with a total of 257 points to 117
for second place Tufts. The women won their 17 team meet with 231 1/2 points
to 165.5 for second place Tufts. Next weekend, MIT will again split its team
up, sending the oval runners to the Boston University David Hemery
Invitational where Galen Rupp will go for the Mile world record while the
field event athletes along with the sprinters and hurdlers will be at MIT for
the Gordon Kelly Invitational.



RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Track & Field Breaks Out With Record Performances

January 24-25, 2014

The MIT Track & Field team split up this weekend, sending folks to three
different meets. A group of multi-event athletes traveled to Harvard where the
women competed in the pentathlon on Saturday and the men in the Heptathlon on
both Friday and Saturday. The oval runners (200 and up) as well as a few high
level vaulters and throwers went to Boston University where the women competed
on Friday, with the exception of the DMR on Saturday morning, and the men
competed on Saturday at the John Thomas Invitational. Most of the field event
athletes, as well as the sprinters and hurdlers were competing at MIT's Art
Farnham Invitational on Saturday, a meet that was dedicated on Saturday to the
former MIT Head Track & Field and Cross Country Coach, who ran the show from
1957-1973.

Friday's competition was just outstanding. It was obvious the Engineers were
ready and waiting for the level of competition. Isabella Stuopis '16 started
things off with the Shot Put, and of course, as she has done the past two
weeks, she reset her own varsity record. Throwing 43-9 3/4 on her final throw
in the trials, she finished eighth overall as she was unable to produce a
better throw in the finals.

The Mile Run was the event of the day for Tech. Louise van den Heuvel '14 led
things off, running in the fast section, immediately after Mary Cain ran the
second fastest junior time ever and Abby D'gostino ran the third fastest
collegiate time ever. The pace was fast but van den Heuvel ran her race,
splitting 71, 2:23 and 3:37 as she fatigued a bit at the end to finish in a
personal best 4:52.35. In the next section, Maryann Gong '17 was racing with a
group that took the pace out much slower, which was to Gong's advantage. Gong
split 72, 2:26 and 3:41 as she settled in second place. As she was about to
make her move she was passed unexpectedly. She kept up but could not quite
pass the leader, splitting 71 for the final quarter, running 4:52.39. She and
van den Heuvel are currently ranked the top two in the country for Division
III. Christine Wicker '17 ran an excellent race as well. She split 77, 2:33
and 3:52 as she was too cautious, and sat on the leader instead of taking the
lead with 600 to go when the pace had slowed. She eventually took off with 250
to go, running 71 on the final quarter to total 5:05.08 in the section win.
Nicole Zeinstra '16, finally able to race after a long bout with an injury, is
still not up to full speed as yet. However, she raced as if she had never been
out, running with the leader through splits of 75 and 2:32 before the fatigue
started getting to her. Nevertheless she continued to race hard, ending up
with a strong performance of 5:09.65. Nadia Lucas '17 ran an outstanding race,
but was a bit too overzealous with the pace. After coming through in a strong
74, Lucas decided she felt good enough to take the lead. She was able to hold
on through 800 in 2:32, then faded big, but kept racing to the best of her
ability, finishing in 5:20.33. Both van den Heuvel's and Gong's time should
get them into the NCAA Division III Indoor Championship in March.

Cimmy Virdi '16 bettered her indoor Pole Vault mark by nearly a half foot as
she cleared 12-5 1/2 and almost cleared 13'. This should certainly get her to
the NCAA Division III Championship as she is currently tied for second on the
NCAA list.

In the 400, Kendra Knittel '17 began her long day with an excellent 59.29
performance. Stephanie Guo '17 ran a 60.10 after going out a little too hard
in 27.7. Both times are indoor PR's. The duo came back later in the 200 and
the 4x400. In the 200 Knittel ran an indoor best of 26.46 while Guo equaled
her 400 split of 27.71. Jackie Brew '14, improved her season best to 26.03,
which moved her to 15th on the NCAA list.

The 800 brought out two more indoor PR's from the Engineers. Cindy Huang '15
ran a very well paced race, splitting 33-34 for each lap to finish in 2:15.54
to move her to 5th in the NCAA rankings. Alexandra Shade '17, still coming
back from injury and getting accustomed to indoor track ran a cautious
2:23.54.

Isabel Crystal '16 was a little ambitious in the 500, taking the lead and
splitting 29.0 for the first 200. She settled in, hitting the 400 at 62.6, but
then paid for her first 200 with a 20 second final 100 to finish in 1:22.11,
still a personal best.

The 4x400 team of Brew, Guo, Shade and Knittel far outdid expectations,
winning their section in 3:59.28. Brew led off with an excellent 58.9 to give
the team the lead. Guo made a great handoff and paced a great leg, retaking
the lead at the end to split 59.8. Shade was the biggest surprise as she split
60.6 giving Knittel a lead, which she proceeded to expand with a 59.9 anchor
for the win.

The final event for the women on Friday was the 5K. Shivani Kaushal '15 was up
first. Running an aggressive pace, Kaushal ran mile splits of 5:47, 5:57 and
6:06 as she started fading at the end. She fought through the pain better than
ever before, closing with a 42 final 200 for a PR of 18:32.46. Heather Sweeney
'16 was up next. Her pace was a bit more even due to the pace established by
the slower section. Her mile splits were 5:55, 5:59 and 6:02 before kicking in
with a 39 final 200 for a huge PR 18:35.57.

The women ended competition on Saturday morning with the Distance Medley
Relay. Based on the previous days results, running sub 11:50 was the goal.
Gong, although she slowed after a 34 first 200, still did her part with a
3:38.5, but did have too much left. Knittel had a great handoff, but did not
get out fast enough, splitting the 200 in 29.1 as compared to her 27.9 in the
open 400. Handing off in 61.1, the race was now between MIT and Monmouth.
Huang took over for the 800 leg and looked great through the 400 where she
came through in 67.0. However, her last 400 was a 73.9 giving her a 2:20.9
split. van den Heuvel was about 40 meters down at the handoff so making up the
difference was not out of the question. However, when she did not make up much
of the gap in the first 800 with a 2:27 split, she seemed to lose a little
focus. Although she finished with a 5:02, she was far off of her 4:52 from the
night before. The total time of 12:02.67 was a fine time for mid-season, but
certainly no where near what is expected for a team that hopes to compete at
the NCAA Championship. Nevertheless, since it is early in the season, this
time is number one on the NCAA Division III list.

The men began the competition with the slow section of the 5K. Matt Jordan '15
ran an awesome race with the only error being not taking the lead sooner. His
first 1600 was 4:47 and right on the planned pace. His second 1600 was 4:51,
slowing about a second per quarter. His third 1600 was a 4:48 thanks mostly to
a 69 final 400 before closing the race out with a 31 200 for a 14:58.04 PR.
Later in the evening, Benji Xie '15 took to the track and got back on the
proverbial horse. After a number of races where he had difficulty finding his
competitive niche, he certainly found it today. Running a solid 71-72 pace the
entire way, Xie ran 14:52.51. Xie and Jordan are ranked 9th and 12th at this
time on the NCAA list.

MIT assaulted the 400. States Lee '16 unleashed a brilliant move entering the
second 200 to take the lead. Although he died in the final straight, he still
ran an indoor best 48.98 to move him into a tie for 3rd on the national list.
Shortly afterwards, Derek Barnes '16 did his best to run faster than Lee, but
that was not to be, although he did set an indoor PR of 49.25, good for 9th on
the NCAA list. Tyler Singer-Clark '14 ran very close to his personal best,
clocking 49.54 for his first 400 of the year and good for 16th on the national
ranking. Nick Diamantoni '15, who has been trying to break the 50 second
barrier, both indoors and outdoors, ran a great race, making his goal by the
smallest of margins, running 49.99 to move into 10th place on the MIT indoor
all-time list. Michael Kaba '16, who had earlier run the 60HH in 9.10, did not
get out in the race and soon lost interest when he fell behind. Nevertheless
he ran 50.63. Danny Newman '17 ran 52.16 and Brandon Corts '17 ran 52.68, both
were personal bests for indoors.

Harrison Hunter '15 won his section of the 800 and established a new PR in the
process, running 1:54.45. Chadd Kiggins '15, stayed too far back throughout
his race and had too much to make up at the end, running 1:54.96, a season
best nonetheless. Andrew Mullen '17, still trying to find his competitiveness,
also hung in the back, overly concerned with dying in the race even though he
split 57.4 for the 400. His final 400 was 60.7 giving him a final time of
1:58.16. Dominique Hoskin '15 had similar concerns and results, performing
2:01.73. Hunter and Kiggins moved to 5th and 8th in the NCAA rankings.

The Mile Run went well for Tech, but there were errors made by all of the
Engineers. Justin Bullock '14 did an amazing job just getting to the line. Not
only are his shins in tremendous pain, but just yesterday he slipped on some
ice and a car ran over his leg. Cleared to race, he did just that. A critical
mistake early in the race caused a severe loss of time, but he still clocked a
4:18.09. Nick Matthews '17 continued to knock large chunks of time off of his
personal best, running 4:20.79. Making the mistake of taking the lead at the
beginning and doing nothing with it was a waste of energy and at the end he
lengthened his stride in hopes of running faster, which just made it more
difficult. All rookie errors that will get fixed in time. There is certainly a
lot of potential in Matthews. Ken Leidal '17 went out way too fast, splitting
31 for the first 200 and leading for the first 400. After falling back and
splitting a 68 third quarter, Leidal moved again to finish in 4:24.02. Matt
McEachern '17 ran 4:25.28. Ian Tolan '16 ran 4:26.76.

In the 500, both Henry Tareque '17 and Gary Burnett '17 were in the same
section. Tareque went out strong, hitting the 200 in 23.9 and taking the lead.
He proceeded to a 51.5 400 split en route to an excellent 1:07.12. Burnett did
not get out quite as well, but was still competitive, splitting 24.6 and 52.8
on the way to a 1:08.78.

Most of the top 400 guys returned in the 200. Singer-Clark ran 22.38 for a new
personal best and moved to 15th on the NCAA list.. Diamantoni ran a huge
personal best, clocking 22.53. Lee ran 22.76 and Barnes 23.05.

On the field event side of things, Ken Cooper '15 threw 50-0 3/4 in the Shot
Put and 54-10 in the Weight Throw, not a good day for the junior. Ben Schreck
'15 cleared 14-6 in the Pole Vault by at least two feet, but then was unable
to clear 15-0.

Back on the track, Sam Parker '15 was entered in his first 1000 of the year.
With the exception of running on the rail too long and getting caught in
traffic, Parker ran an impressive 2:27.99, running 29 point laps the entire
race. Hunter, by his own request, came back in the 1000. His first 700 meters
looked as though he was contemplating dropping out, but that was just a
disguise as he owned the race from the back. When he went, he really went,
dropping a 56.8 final 400 to finish in 2:30.74. Bullock manned up and ran an
excellent second race despite his legs, finishing with a 29 final 200 for a
2:32.02

The 4x400 was the event most had been waiting for and it was the final event
of the meet for MIT. States Lee led off as usual. His first lap was a solid
23.2, but that put him in a tangle with two other runners as they entered the
turn. Lee braced himself by putting his hand out and the lead runner went
down, causing Lee to break and then hurdle the fallen runner. This certainly
hurt Lee's performance significantly as he only split 50.2. Michael Kaba
performed much better in the relay than in the open 400, moving when he needed
to in order to stay ahead of opposing runners and timing his break correctly.
His 49.6 split was excellent and his handoff to Derek Barnes, while not
perfect was the best they ever had. Barnes ran very well, accelerating when he
needed to in order to hold off pass attempts. His split of 49.7 was his best
indoor split ever, but still not faster than his open 400. Singer-Clark did an
excellent job on his anchor leg, pulling away in the final 200 to split 48.7
for a total time of 3:18.13. This time currently has them ranked third in
Division III.

Back at MIT, the competitive highlights were led by Ellen Liverpool '15, who
yet again set another PR for the fourth consecutive week. This time breaking
the 50' barrier for the first time, a 50-5 1/2 throw, ranking her 23rd on the
national list. Angel Echevarria '16 had the most impressive performance on the
men's side, popping a 46-3 1/4 PR in the Triple Jump to move him to number six
on the NCAA list. Other personal bests for the men were earned by Taylor Njaka
'17 in the 60 Meter Dash, running 7.15. Teammate Brad Goldsberry improved his
60 time to 7.36. Njaka also ran a personal best in the 200, clocking 23.40.
Ian Perry had an excellent day in the Pole Vault, clearing 13-7 1/4 on his
second attempt. In the Weight Throw, both Alex Noakes '16 and Sebastian Santos
'17 threw PR's. Noakes threw 46-9 and Santos tossed the weight 42-5 1/4.

The women had a personal best and a season best from Veronica Szklarzewski
'15. She ran 8.08 in the 60 Meter Dash for her second PR in two weeks and a
34-2 3/4 in the Triple Jump for a season best. Stephanie Riocci '16 threw a
personal best of 39-8 in the Weight Throw. Abby Klein '14 vaulted 10-11 3/4
for a personal best.

Over at Harvard, Jackie Konopka '14 put down the leading mark in the country
for the Pentathlon, tying her personal best last year with a score of 3453
points. Along the way, she set an MIT record of 5-4 1/2 in the High Jump.
Stephanie Birkhimer '14 scored 2682 points, which qualified her for the New
England Division III Championship. For the men, Jordan Mizerak '14 scored 4491
points in the Heptathlon to rank 7th in the country and Adrian Samsel '16
scored 4437 to rank him 8th on the NCAA list.

Next week, the Engineers head across town to Tufts University for their final
scoring meet of the regular season. MIT expects stiff competition from Tufts
in both the men's and women's meets.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Relay Teams Highlight Action for Men, Women Set Two MIT Records

February 7-8, 2014

Once again, the MIT Track & Field team split their squad, sending the oval
runners to the David Hemery Valentine Invitational at Boston University while
keeping the sprinters, hurdlers and field events specialists at the Gordon
Kelly Invitational at MIT. The BU meet had the women on Friday with the
exception of the Men's Distance Medley Relay, and the men on Saturday, with
the exception of the women's DMR. The MIT meet was Saturday only for both
genders.

MIT dedicated their meet to the former head coach, Gordon Kelly, who coached
at MIT for 29 years, 16 of those as the men's head coach (1974-1990). Kelly's
teams won 13 New England Division III Championships and he coached seven
national champions.

The Men's Distance Medley Relay started things off, and the MIT team really
did not know what to expect. Leadoff was Sam Parker '15 running his first ever
1200, 200 meters farther than he had ever raced on the track. States Lee '16
was in the 400 leg and that was not unusual. Freshman Andrew Mullen, a
neophyte at this level of racing, was running the 800 leg. Chadd Kiggins '15
was running the 1600 leg, his first high level 1600 since high school. Seeded
in the fast section, the team was hoping to run sub 10:00. Parker led off,
going with the field through a split of 59.1, looking great, but backed off a
little and let the front runners gap him. He hit the 800 in 2:01.3, but then
started to move, although he was trapped a little on the rail. When he got out
he accelerated and nearly caught the leaders, splitting a very respectable
3:01.1. Lee took the baton and went after the two leaders. He tried a little
too hard on the first home stretch, coming through the 200 in 22.6. He almost
tried to pass on the inside on the back stretch but then thought better and
cut his momentum slightly. He eventually moved to the front on the home
stretch, running 49.0 as he handed off to Mullen. Mullen went out with the
leaders, splitting a fast 27.1, 54.8 before allowing the leaders to gap him.
He managed to hold on for a fine 1:55.5. Kiggins did what he had to do,
running about 10 meters behind the leaders. Even so, he hit the first 400 in
60.1 and continued to press at 2:03.6 for the 800. He lost focus or intensity
in the next quarter, falling back in the pack, splitting 3:09.2 for the 1200.
He picked it back up in the final 400, racing back into the mix for a 4:12.0
leg. The overall time was 9:57.76, a very respectable first time performance,
provoking the thought the quartet may be able to qualify for Nationals with
another go at it in three weeks.

Cindy Huang '15 got things moving for the women with the 800 meter race. Huang
went out with the leaders, going out too fast with a 31 first 200. Her 65
first 400 was more of an expected split, but the second 200 in 34 was not a
great sign. However, she was able to hold onto that pace, putting together a
69 final 400 for a new MIT record of 2:14.65. Alexandra Shade '17, missed her
check-in, so was put in a slower section. Knowing this she went out to the
lead and never looked back. Her first 200 in 32 was not the wisest move, but
other than that she ran well, establishing a season best of 2:20.97.

In the Mile Run, Nadia Lucas '18 raced well despite moving to the back of the
pack in the first 200, splitting 39. She raced competitively from there,
hitting 75 and then 2:33 as she moved to the front pack. She was not quite
able to get around the leaders, and then began to fade. Lucas continued to
race even though she was dying, completing the Mile in a season best 5:11.43.

The 200 runners did not break 26 seconds, but came very close. Kendra Knittel
'17 ran an indoor PR of 26.04. Jackie Brew '14 got the unfortunate draw of
lane 2, but still managed a solid 26.22. Jackie Konopka '14 ran her first ever
banked track 200, and despite over striding ran 26.38 out of lane three.

At the end of the night, Elaine McVay '15 raced in the 5K. She was the final
entry in the fast section. While this is what she wanted, it may not have been
the best thing for the junior All American. Eighty-two second 400's would have
been ideal, but the early pace was pretty fast even at the back of the pack as
McVay hit 5:24 at the 1600 and was third from last. Unlike how she normally
holds on, McVay fell to 5:34 for the second 1600 and then 5:48 for her final
1600 before closing in 43 seconds. McVay usually deviates less than three
seconds from fastest to slowest 400, so finding out if she just had a bad day
or the fast first 1600 did her in will be important if she is to run fast
enough later to make the NCAA Championship. Her 17:29.20 is not likely to get
her there.

Louise van den Heuvel '14 and Maryann Gong '17 were in the second section of
the 3K. The pace was fast as van den Heuvel came through the 1600 in 5:10 and
was well off the pace of the leaders. Gong, who was with van den Heuvel
through 1200 meters, dropped off to 5:12 at the 1600. While this pace was
perfect, if not a little slow for what they should be able to handle based on
their 4:52 Mile time, it may be a level of discomfort they are unaccustomed
to. Gradually giving up space, van den Heuvel slowed to an 82 final 400, then
closed in 37 for the final 200 to finish with a new MIT record of 9:48.61.
Gong fell well off the pace, but her 10:04.18 was only 12 seconds off the 9:52
she ran back in December when she ran a more reasonable 5:15 first 1600.

Saturday morning began with the women's DMR. The quartet of Gong, Brew, Huang
and van den Heuvel was hoping to improve on their 12:02.67 from two weeks ago,
and would like to break 11:50, which would put them in a solid position to
make the NCAA Division III Championship field. Gong began the race well,
determined to race to her potential. Her first 400 in 70 certainly looked as
though she was trying to win her leg. However, the 3K from the night before
seemed to take its toll. Gong continued to race competitively, but slowed
significantly, splitting 3:40.8. Brew got the baton and was determined to make
up the ground on the teams that had gapped Gong. Her 26.5 first 200 was a
mistake and she paid for it, slowing to finish in 59.2. Huang, who normally
does not come back in the relays as well as her open races, was challenged to
put van den Heuvel close enough to catch all of the Division III teams ahead
of Huang. Part of the reason her relay legs tend to be slower is the fact she
nearly always goes out too fast. This time was no different, hitting the 200
mark in 31.5. She split 65.2 ad 1:39.7 as she kept racing hard. Her final 200
was not pretty, but did the job of closing the gap with her 2:17.3. MIT was
now only behind one Division III team and in fourth overall as van den Heuvel
went out well in 71.8. Unfortunately, the 3K from the night before probably
hit her legs as well as she then ran 76 400's back to back. She pulled into
third place and closed with a 74.8 for a 4:57.8 1600 and 11:55.05 overall. The
team will probably not be secure with this performance, forcing them to race
again in three weeks.

The men's 400 was a thing of beauty. States Lee '16 and Tyler Singer-Clark '14
were the first MIT runners on the track, running well off the top sections, as
the fastest time in the world this year was recorded in the first section. Lee
got out well, pushed the back stretch, but coming off the second turn was
unable to get the break. Having already committed he was hung out on the curve
and could not get around the entire second lap. He lost the race, but lowered
his personal best indoors to 48.58, the second fastest time in MIT history and
only .12 behind the legendary Ayisi Makatiani '90. Singer-Clark ran his best
time to date in an excellent race to clock 48.75 for third on the all-time MIT
list. Michael Kaba '16 ran a strong second 200 to give him a season best of
49.63. Derek Barnes '16 ran the first 100 of the 400 as he should for the
first time. Unfortunately, he also ran the second 100 fast, and expended too
much energy getting the break. This caused the second 200 to be pretty ugly,
but he still won his section with a 49.69. Nick Diamantoni '15 also misread
the break, having to cut his momentum at the end of the first 200. He also had
difficulty passing in the final 100, yet he ran a personal best of 49.88.
Danny Newman '17 continues to improve dramatically in his freshman year.
Racing very well, Newman took the lead on the second lap and powered home in
51.32.

The 500 was next for Tech. Sam Parker was in the fast section and quite
nervous about the position. He should not have worried. Pacing the event well,
Parker went to pass on the outside at the 300 mark just as the second place
runner pulled off the track on the inside. This caused the fourth place runner
to step off the track to avoid collision and now Parker was in first. He held
the lead to the finish in 1:05.15 to move to #3 on the MIT list. Mac Gager '14
ran a PR as well, running 1:05.84 to win his section and move into number six
on the all-time MIT list.

Singer-Clark returned in the 200, putting up an indoor PR of 22.10. Taylor
Njaka '17 got on a banked track for the first time in his life, and although
he seemed a little off on his stride, he ran a very nice 22.81. Danny Newman
'17 ran his first 200 of the season, crossing the finish line in 23.27.

MIT's only representative in the Mile was Ian Tolan '16. He has struggled to
find his competitiveness since being at MIT, but this appeared to be a
different Ian Tolan. Right from the gun he was engaged with the leaders. His
440 split was quick at 62.4, and even his second 440 was a 64.3. Typically
backing off at this point, Tolan stayed focus although he seemed to be overly
cautious after the 1000. His 1320 was 3:13.6, showing his reluctance to push
the pace, but he finished well to run a PR of 4:18.56. There were eight sub
4:00 miles this day and eight more under 4:01.

In the 1000, Chadd Kiggins returned from the DMR anchor leg with hopes of
breaking 2:30. He hit splits of 28.9, 59.0 and 1:29.1 before letting the two
leaders gap him. However, he regained his focus and got back on the horse. He
finished in 2:28.82 for a new PR, which moved him to #10 on the all-time MIT
list. Nick Matthews '17 ran an excellent first 400, but then did stalled out a
little in the middle with a 31.5 third 200. He kicked in the final 200, but he
allowed his stride to lengthen too much. Nevertheless he ran a PR of 2:32.41.

In the 4x400, after sitting around since the open 400 six hours earlier, the
foursome of States Lee, Michael Kaba, Derek Barnes and Tyler Singer-Clark took
to the track in the fast section, where the only competition were Division I
schools. Lee was his dependable self, getting out well and getting his team
into second place with his 48.7 opening leg. Kaba got out like he did last
year, which was welcome as he has been starting races much too slowly this
year. However, it may have been too fast, as he split 22.6 for the first 200.
He still finished well, handing off in 48.9. Barnes ran a very solid race, but
tightened up on the second lap, yet keeping MIT in third place in 49.6.
Singer-Clark chased down BU and nearly caught them at the line, anchoring in
48.6 for a season best 3:15.94.

Benji Xie '15 gave it a go in the 5K, making an effort to qualify for
Nationals. His early pace was perfect, coming through the first 1600 in 4:39.
His moves were effortless and he looked strong at the 3200 in 9:20. When the
pace started to pick up he just did not have it in his legs, but he was able
to maintain the pace, hitting the 4800 in 14:03, finishing the 5K in 14:40.42.
This performance will not get him into the national field as he will need to
run about 10 seconds faster on a banked track.

Back at MIT there were some impressive performances. Veronica Szlarzewski '15
put on a show as she had a career day. On the track she lowered her 60 meter
time to 7.96. In the field events she jumped a personal best 17-5 1/2 in the
Long Jump and then added a 35-4 1/2 in the Triple Jump for good measure.

While Isabella Stuopis won the Shot Put with a throw of 43-4 1/4, Christine
Labaza '14 threw a nice season best of 35-8 1/2.

Stephanie Guo '17 improved her 60HH time to 9.69. Right after that she was on
the track in the 600 and won that in a PR 1:43.41.

In the Pole Vault, Cimmy Virdi '16 won the collegiate competition at 11-11
3/4. Jennifer Tylock '17 jumped a huge personal best at 11-5 3/4.

For the men, Ken Cooper '15 won both the Shot Put and Weight Throw as usual
with marks of 50-1 1/4 and 56-1 respectively. Also in the Weight Throw, Curtis
Shoyer '16 had a nice PR of 45-2 1/4.

In the Pole Vault, Ben Schreck '15 cleared 16-0 3/4 for a huge personal best.
Marshall Wentworth jumped 13-7 1/4, also gaining a new PR.

Adrian Samsel '16 had a pretty big day, getting PR's in the 60HH (8.82) and
the 600 (1:26.90).

Carrington Motley '16 jumped 21-6 in the Long Jump and had a season best in
the Triple Jump with a 45-0 1/4 effort, finishing just behind teammate Angle
Echevarria at 45-5 1/4.

Next week, most of the team will travel to Tufts University for the Cupid
Challenge, although some will again be at Boston University for their Scarlet
and White Invite.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



