




**ALUMNI RUN AWAY WITH TRACK MEET**

January 6, 2007

When a program has All America athletes and national champions, inevitably,
particularly at MIT, they graduate.  Those graduates feel the need to come
back in the annual MIT Alumni vs. Varsity indoor track and field meet and
humiliate the current varsity athletes who generally are not at the All
America level.  This desire became a reality on Saturday as the "Has-Beens"
ran away with the meet by a score of 81 to 41.

Double winners ruled the day for the Alums.  Uzoma Orji showed that his skills
have not deteriorated despite not practicing as he won the weight throw with a
62-3 effort and the shot at 52-11 1/2.  Zach Traina got pay-back on David Blau
for beating him in both the 55 and 200 in last year's meet, by winning the 55
in 6.62 and the 200 in a very impressive 22.64.  Ben Schmeckpeper repeated his
double win from last year by taking the mile in 4:23.50 and the 5000 in
15:19.21.

Other victories by the Alumni were had by Thad Wozniak in the long jump (21-2
1/2), Nate Ball in the pole vault (14-6), Craig Mielcarz in the high jump
(6-2), Rick Rajter in the 55HH (7.99) and the foursome of Traina, Blau,
Wozniak and Rajter in the 4x200 relay.

The only events won by the varsity were the triple jump by Omari Stephens
(42-7), the 400 by William Fedus (51.74) and the 800 by Jake Ruzevick
(2:00.28).  Despite the low score, the varsity performed better in nearly
every event than in last year's meet.  The horizontal jumpers are still on a
limited approach and sprinters and field event athletes are finishing a
difficult conditioning period.

Stephens had a very good day by not only winning the triple jump but also
running 8.31 in the high hurdles and jumping 14-0 in the pole vault.  All
three marks qualify for the New England Division III Championship (NED3).
Stephen Morton had a superb day even though he finished third to Traina and
Blau in the 55 and second to Traina in the 200.  Morton qualified for the NED3
meet in both events, setting a new MIT freshman record in the 200 at 22.78.
The previous record had been set on a banked track and was shared by Traina
and Blau at 22.95.

Other NED3 qualifiers were Anthony Teixeira in the 55HH, Patrick Barragan in
the pole vault, James Oleinik in the shot put and Ruzevick in the mile.
Although none of them qualified, four varsity runners broke 16:00 in the 5K,
led by Chris Wong in 15:45.05.  Following Wong were Tyler Abrams in 15:49.28,
Hemagiri Arumugam in 15:52.56 and Brian Jacokes in 15:57.68.

Although approaching the 40 year mark, Bill Singhose still has it.  Professor
Singhose cleared 14-6 in the pole vault for second place, threw the shot 40-8
1/2 for third and 41-3 in the weight throw for third.  Other Alumni place
winners were Ravi Sastry placed second in the 55HH, Todd Chamoy second in the
weight throw, Carlos Renjifo placed third in the mile with a superb kick, Eric
Khatchadourian, who will be on the varsity team for the outdoor season, placed
second in the 5K, Rajter was second in the high jump and third in the triple
jump and Mielcarz was second in the long jump.

Next week MIT travels to Bates College to begin their intercollegiate
competition against Bates and Coast Guard.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**MIT REMAINS UNDEFEATED WITH WIN OVER TUFTS IN 5-WAY MEET**

January 27, 2007

MIT coaches expected a let down in performances after last week's exciting win
over Williams College but the team would have none of it as they remained
undefeated after a win over Tufts, Bowdoin, Springfield and Colby to move
their record to 9-0.  Some of the Tufts runners attended a meet at Boston
University in hopes to run faster times on the banked track, but it may not
have made a difference as the Engineers came away with a 46 point victory with
a total of 185.5 points to 139.5 for Tufts.  Springfield followed with 119
points, followed by 75 for host Bowdoin and 35 for Colby.

The horizontal jumpers came into the competition trailing the Tufts jumpers in
the New England rankings.  The quickly improving jumpers were ready for the
challenge as demonstrated by a 2-3-4 finish in the long jump, led by Chris
Bateman's 21-5 1/4, and a 2-4-5-6 placing in the triple jump led by Stephen
Morton's freshman record of 45-4 1/4.  With only six places scoring and a
scoring system of 10-8-6-4-2-1, it was paramount to get high places as well as
a majority of all six scoring places so the Engineers could make up for a lack
of points in the weight throw and high jump.

The distance runners were not to be outdone.  Also improving each week, the
"distance dudes" took advantage of this meet having both the 3000 and 5000
meter races.  In the 3000, Joe Roy-Mayhew led Tech to a 2-5-6 finish with a
new personal best of 8:44.93.  In the 5000, Dave Sorenson of Tufts went out
hard, opening up a 15 second lead on the field, including MIT freshmen,
Johannes Schneider and Hemagiri Arumugam.  At the 3200 meter mark, Schneider
began closing the gap, negatively splitting a final mile in 4:50.  With one
lap to go Schneider went to go around Sorenson, who was stepping out himself
to go around a lapped group of runners.  Schneider did not allow sufficient
room and ended up on the losing end of contact with 150 meters to go.
Although he did not win, Schneider ran a superb 15:21.77 to lead a 2-3-4-5
domination of the 5K by MIT.

The pole vault was certainly not lacking an MIT presence.  Despite a no-height
performance by Greg Tao due to his pole being broken early in the competition
by Cody Rebholz (tied for 6th), Omari Stephens led the remaining Tech vaulters
to a 1-2-3 placing with a personal best 14-9 effort.

Despite being a little ill, Jake Ruzevick dominated the mile run wire to wire
with a 4:20.46 time before calling it quits for the day.  Also in the mile,
Yermie Cohen had his best MIT meet to this point, leading all scorers with
18.5 points.  Cohen earned a third in the mile with an indoor PR of 4:26.00,
won the 1000 in 2:36.22 and ran a 2:02.8 leg on the winning 4x800 relay.
Following Cohen to the line in the 1000 was Bill Phipps, just .04 behind for
second place.

Although he was recovering from an illness earlier in the week, Liam Fedus ran
to a personal best in the 600 to move to number five on the MIT all-time 600
list.  Fedus also struggled through a leg in the 200 and the 4x400 but was
happy when the day was done.

MIT's next meet is on Monday, February 5 at Boston University vs. Boston
University, Boston College, Northeastern and Providence College, all division
I colleges.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**MIT'S PERFORMANCE DOMINATED BY PERSONAL BESTS**

February 5, 2007

Being the only Division III team in a meet comprised of Division I colleges
can be a little intimidating.  However, MIT has a tradition of taking care of
business when they go to a track meet, regardless of the opponents, and the
Engineers were not about to change now.  Twenty-three personal bests later the
tech men showed they are ready for the upcoming championships.

In the first event, Jake Ruzevick ran a well paced 4:15.62 mile run to smash
his previous best and move into the all-time top 10 indoor list by MIT track
athletes.  Despite the contact and a couple of strategic errors Ruzevick
managed to hold it together and run a time that missed the NCAA provisional
qualifying mark by .02.  In the second section of the mile, Yermie Cohen ran
4:22.75 for the win.

In the 500, all three MIT entrants, Matt Bieniosek, Aron Walker and Will
Gibson, ran personal bests.  Bieniosek and Walker both improved their New
England Division III qualifying times with 1:07.55 and 1:08.15 respectively.
Gibson did not qualify but ran an excellent 1:10.07.

Peter Mulligan continues to improve each week, this time with a 2:01.33 to put
himself in position to run a relay in the upcoming Division III Championship.

Cohen came back in the 1000 to set yet another PR.  Going out a little too
quickly, he nevertheless held on for a 2:34.14 performance.  Cohen is
qualified for both the mile and 1000 for the NE Division III Championships.
Archi Stuk also ran a 1000 best of 2:38.55.

Joe Roy-Mayhew went with the leaders from Providence College at the start of
the race, determined to come through the mile in 4:32.  He came very close by
hitting the mile mark in 4:33.  Roy-Mayhew faded a little at the end but still
managed a nice PR for third place in 8:40.15.  Hemugiri Arumugam lowered his
personal best to 8:50.74 as he prepares for the upcoming championship.  Others
setting bests were Brian Jacokes in 9:00.92, Rocco Repetski in 9:06.69 and
Kevin DiGenova in 9:07.76.

Stephen Morton continued to show off his talents when he again lowered the
freshman 200 record, this time running 22.57, good for second place.  Also
setting a nice personal best in the one lapper was Stephen Oney, clocking a
23.34.

Morton also did well in the triple jump, bounding 44-9 3/4 for second place.
MIT also dominated places 3-7 in the triple jump with outstanding personal
bests from Anthony Teixeira (44-2 1/2) and Obinna Anyanwu (43-10 3/4)
showcasing MIT's improvement in this event.

In the pole vault, Omari Stephens claimed a second place and a personal best
of 14-11, just missing 15-6.  Not to be outdone, Greg Tao cleared 13-11 1/4
for his own MIT PR.

This upcoming weekend, MIT will send many of their faster runners back to BU
for the Valentine's Classic with the men competing on Friday and the women on
Saturday.  The field event athletes as well as some runners who have qualified
in one event but are running a shorter one for speed and those trying to
qualify for the championship will be competing at the MIT Coed Invitational on
Saturday.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**MIT ATHLETES CONTINUE TO DOMINATE WITH PERSONAL BESTS**

February 10, 2007

While some of their teammates competed at Boston University to take advantage
of the banked track, many MIT track and field members stayed home at their own
Coed Invitational to face very good competition from 13 New England colleges
in a meet much shorter in duration that the two-day marathon across the river.

The only athlete to compete in both was James Oleinik.  Setting a season best
the night before at BU, Oleinik threw a personal best of 49-7 to win the shot
put competition at MIT.

Anthony Teixeira had a very fine day of competition, setting two personal
bests.  In the high hurdles, Teixeira sprinted to a 8.04 victory and then came
back to the long jump to leap 21-5 1/4 to place third, just ahead of teammates
Chris Bateman and Stephen Morton who both jumped 21-4 1/4.

Brian Jacokes led a group of MIT distance runners in the 5000 in an effort to
qualify for the New England Division III Championship next weekend.  Jacokes
negative split the final mile and ran a 34 final 200 to finish in 15:41.83 but
missed qualifying by 1.83 seconds.  Jacokes nevertheless ran another huge PR
and won the event.  Trevor Rundell showed he is coming back well from injury
as he ran 16:00.15.

Althought the vaulters dominated the event as usual, Patrick Barragan had the
only personal best.  Barragan vaulted to 13-3 for a fourth place finish.

Other fine performances turned in were Will Gibson's PR of 1:28.34 in the 600,
Chris Wong, Jack Bourbonnais and Rocco Repetski in the mile running 4:30.52,
4:31.80 and 4:35.42 respectively, Eric Beecher with a season best of 5-11 1/4
in the high jump and Jonathan Hsieh's season best of 6.84 in the 55 dash.

About half of the team will travel north to Bates College to compete in the
New England Division III Championship next Saturday.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**MIT EXCEEDS SEEDS TO PLACE THIRD IN NEW ENGLAND DIVISION III CHAMPIONSHIP**

February 17, 2007

MIT's Men's Indoor Track and Field team entered the New England Division III
Championship hosted by Bates College as the fourth seed behind Williams
College, Tufts University and Springfield College with Bates close behind.
Nine personal bests later the Engineers scored 12 more points than they were
seeded for, easily finishing ahead of Springfield for third place with 79
points behind Williams with 152 and Tufts with 103, continuing to give MIT the
most top three finishes in the meet's history.

Most of MIT's points were supposed to come at the end of the meet, but the
long jumpers and pole vaulters did not feel like waiting to put MIT on the
scoreboard.  Seeded to only place fifth, Tech's jumpers stepped it up and
finished 4-5-8 with captain Chris Bateman leading the way with a personal best
of 21-8 3/4.  Stephen Morton was right behind with 21-7 1/4 and Anthony
Teixeira finishing up with 21-0 3/4.

Omari Stephens led the vault trio to outscore their seeds by one point.
Stephens himself placed third with a 14-5 1/2, one place lower than his seed,
but Greg Tao vaulted to a personal best of 14-2 3/4 to place fourth and
Patrick Barragan tied for sixth with a vault of 12-11 3/4.

With 23 points after the two events MIT started the meet well.  On the track,
Teixeira and Stephens both made the finals in the 55HH and then proceeded to
run personal bests in the finals to place 4th and 6th respectively.  Teixeira
ran 7.92 despite hitting the first three hurdles and Stephens ran 8.06.

In the shot put, James Oleinik was seeded second and despite throwing very
near his best he had to settle for fifth with a toss of 48-10 3/4.

Entering the second half of the meet, MIT was in sixth place but confident
their points would come.  Matt Bieniosek took to the track in the 800 seeded
6th based on his 1:57.09 run at Boston University the week before.  Running a
very slow second 200, Bieniosek was forced to run everyone else's race.  He
could not respond at the end, finishing seventh in 1:58.83.

Jake Ruzevick was seeded fourth in the 1000 but exceeded that when he finished
with a strong final 200 to run a personal best of 2:31.12 to place third.

Freshman Stephen Morton, having to deal with the very strange rulings of the
games committee as well as an unfortunate random lane assignment, nevertheless
stayed focused and finished second overall with a flat track personal best of
22.58.  In the trials, Morton was only one of two runners out of 26 to get
assigned lane two, the slowest of the five lanes used.  Four of the six heats
only had four to a heat, using the outside lanes for faster times.  Clearly
Morton was at a disadvantage with the inside lane, but instead of re-seeding
to eliminate anyone from having to run in lane two, the games committee
decided to run the 200 as is.  In addition, they decided to advance everyone
only on time rather than follow the NCAA rules of giving heat winners
preference and a higher rank when assigning lanes for the final.  This
prevented one heat winner from even advancing and gave Morton lane three in
the slower of the two section final.  Morton took matters into his own hands,
pushed the first turn to make up the stagger on lane four, and brought it home
to win his section and beat everyone but the winner in the first section.

Joe Roy-Mayhew, seeded fifth in the 3000, struggled in the latter stages of
the race and was unable to stay with the leaders.  Fading to seventh in the
final half mile, Roy-Mayhew ran 8:54.07.

The final field event, the triple jump was about to enter the final rounds
with both Morton and Bateman making the finals.  Despite a personal best of
43-11 1/4, Bateman was unable to move up past ninth position.  Morton was in
fifth coming out of the trials but fell to sixth in the final round.  With his
last jump, Morton jumped to a personal best of 45-10 1/2 to improve his
freshman record and place third for a total day's work of 18 points.

With only the relays to go MIT only needed to score two points if Springfield
won the 4x400 relay.  MIT put that matter to rest when the DMR took to the
track.  Yermie Cohen did not run as well as he expected but he still put MIT
in good position with a 3:13 1200 leg.  Alex Rothberg brought the 400 leg in a
fine 51.5 to put MIT in a close third.  Archi Stuk ran an even paced 2:01.9
800 to put MIT even at the handoff.  Hemagiri Arumugam followed the leaders
for the first 800 meters, but when the pace slowed to 2:13 he took matters
into his own hands and ran away with the race, finishing with a 4:25 and a
four second lead over second place.

In the final event, the 4x800 relay, MIT led from wire to wire to win in
7:56.63.  Bill Phipps took the lead and ran a 1:59.1 first leg.  Ruzevick took
the pace out hard, coming through the 400 in 56.5 to open up a 40 meter lead.
Ruzevick finished in 1:57.5 to give Peter Mulligan a comfortable cushion.
Nevertheless, Mulligan put any thoughts of their competitors catching up out
of their minds by taking it out in 57.4.  Mulligan finished in 2:01.6 to give
anchor, Bieniosek, a thirty meter lead.  A determined Bieniosek heard the
crowd cheering for the closing Brandeis runner and ran a 56.9 opening 400.
The Brandeis runners closed the gap down by at least 20 meters despite the
fast pace.  Bieniosek continued to push the pace coming through 600 in 1:26.8,
which was too much for the Brandeis runners who eventually faded to finish six
seconds behind the MIT championship team.

Next week, MIT goes back across the Charles River to compete at Boston
University, host of the NEICAAA Championship.  This meet is essentially the
New England  combined championship for divisions I, II and III.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**TECH REMAINS UNDEFEATED WITH HARD FOUGHT VICTORY OVER WILLIAMS**

January 20, 2007

On paper, the annual quadrangular meet versus Williams, RPI and Westfield
State, that is actually a dual meet as far as the teams from MIT and Williams
are concerned, was pretty even with Williams having a very slight edge.  The
actual meet was just about as close and every bit the battle these two teams
have come to expect from each other.  When all was said and done, MIT was able
to secure the victory by a score of 225 1/2 to 208 to 107 1/2 for RPI and 51
for Westfield State.

The story of the meet was the quality of the Ephmen (11 individual event
victories) going up against the depth and balance of the Engineers (scoring in
every event with a total of 29 individuals contributing point scorers.  The
most dominant event for Williams was the 1000 meter race where the Ephs scored
26 points by virtue of placing 1-2-3-5, but MIT still managed 10 points with
4-6-7 placings.  On the other hand, MIT was able to score 13 points in the 55
hurdles thanks to Anthony Teixeira and Omari Stephens placing second and third
respectively and 18 1/2 in the pole vault with Stephens leading Greg Tao,
Patrick Barragan and Nate Sharpe to 2-3-5-7 places while Williams was unable
to score in either event.

The only event winners for MIT were James Oleinik in the shot put (47-11),
William Fedus in the 400 (52.37) and the 4x400 run by Alex Rothberg, Matt
Bieniosek, Aron Walker and Fedus (3:30.04).  Nevertheless there was no lack of
quality from the Engineers side of things.  In the triple jump, MIT had five
of the eight possible scorers led by Stephens, all qualifying for the New
England Division III Championship in the process.  Obinna Anyanwu also
qualified for the championship despite not scoring with his ninth place
finish.

Stephen Morton ran a season best of 6.66 in the 55 dash, took two long jumps
(21-8 1/2), one triple jump (42-5 1/4) and placed second in the 200 to score a
meet leading 23 points, all with a tight hamstring that limited his speed.
Also in the long jump Teixeira and Chris Bateman qualified for the Division
III championship.

In the 600, Bieniosek placed second with a championship qualifying time of
1:25.02.  Yermie Cohen qualified in the 1000 with his 2:37.00 fourth place
effort.  Despite injurying his back at the start of the race, Jake Ruzevick
ran a season best qualifying effort of 4:20.18 to place second in the mile.
In the 5000, where one had to run under 15:57 to place, Chris Wong and Joe
Roy-Mayhew led the Engineers with qualifying performances of 15:31.33 and
15:33.21, placing second and third respectively.

MIT took an early lead and kept it at 20-30 points the entire meet.  The
support for both teams was unbelievable with the noise so loud from the two
teams making it impossible to hear the announcer or even the officials calling
the competitors names.

Overall, MIT produced 31 season bests for a true team effort.  At 5-0, the
Techmen travel to Bowdoin College next Saturday to go up against very strong
teams from Tufts and Springfield, along with solid teams from Bowdoin and
Colby.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**MIT STARTS THE SEASON WITH VICTORIES OVER BATES AND COAST GUARD**

January 13, 2007

The MIT Engineers took advantage of their depth in the horizontal jumps and
distance events to easily outdistance host Bates College and the visiting
Coast Guard Academy by a score of 165 to 111 to 88, respectively, in the
annual tri-meet.

Although six places scored in each non-relay event (7-5-4-3-2-1) a given team
could not score more than four places due to the rules of the meet.  Jake
Ruzevick (4:23.40) led Yermie Cohen (4:29.36), Joe Roy-Mayhew (4:30.92) and
Chris Wong (4:31.64) to a 1-2-3-4 sweep in the mile to start the running
events and Hemu Arumugam (8:59.85) led Johannes Schneider (8:59.89), Tyler
Abrams (9:01.14), Brian Jacokes (9:10.42) and Kevin DiGenova (9:12.13) to a
1-2-3-4-5 sweep in the last event, the 3000, to remove any doubt as to the
outcome of the meet.

In the field events, Stephen Morton (20-11 1/4) led Chris Bateman (20-05 1/4)
and Anthony Teixeira (20-03 1/2) to a 1-2-3 finish in the long jump and
Bateman (42-04 1/4) turned right around and led Teixeira (42-04), Morton
(42-01 1/4), and pole vault (14-06) and 55HH winner (8.20), Omari Stephens
(41-10) to a 2-3-4-5 effort in the triple jump.

In addition to Stephens the other double winner for MIT was freshman Stephen
Morton, winner of the 200 as well as the long jump.  Other winners were Liam
Fedus in the 600 (1:24.34) and Matt Bieniosek in the 800 (1:59.51).

It is still early in the season, heavy conditioning is still in play, and the
jumpers and vaulters are still on a limited approach.  This combined with the
fact that the freshmen are being held back from doing too much in the early
meets give reason to look forward to the later meets in anticipation of
significant individual improvement.

Next week the Engineers are at home against RPI, Westfield State and Williams
College on Saturday starting at noon time.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**MIT TRACKSTERS RUN FOR FAST TIMES**

February 9-10, 2007

MIT split their squad up this weekend.  Sending some athletes to Boston
University while most of the team stayed home to compete in MIT's Coed
Invitational.

Jake Ruzevick got things started at the Valentine's Classic held on Boston
University's banked track with a NCAA provisionally qualifying, first time
effort in the 5K, crossing the line in 14:49.87.  Ruzevick ran even split 70
second quarters through 2400 meters before falling to 73 second pace.  Getting
accustomed to the longer distance will obviously take a little practice, but
Ruzevick's time puts him at number 10 on the MIT all-time list.

Joe Roy-Mayhew took to the oval next, running a new personal best in the mile
run.  Running negative splits of 67, 66, 65, 65, Roy-Mayhew ran a 4:24.05.

A trio of MIT runners ran the 800.  Matt Bieniosek led the way with a new best
of 1:57.09.  Bill Phipps followed that up with his own personal best of
1:58.82 to win his section.  Archi Stuk finished things up with his own MIT
best of 2:01.41

Stephen Morton, running without blocks and stumbling coming out of the final
turn, nevertheless lowered his own freshman record in the 200 to 22.44.  The
fields were so crowded at BU that they did not allow runners to take the time
to set up blocks.

In the field the only MIT competitor was James Oleinik.  Competing in the shot
put Oleinik set a season best of 48-2 3/4.

The only event for the men held on Saturday was the distance medley relay.
MIT's intention was to improve their mark for the NE Division III meet next
week and to see how some of the guys would compete fresh.  Yermie Cohen has
been having a great season and continued that with a very nice 3:09 lead off
1200 leg.  Alex Rothberg ran his best 400 of the season, clocking a 51.3.
Peter Mulligan continued to improve and get the job done with his personal
best 2:00.2 800 split.  Hemu Arumugam anchored the 10:19.88 relay with an
excellent 4:19.1 1600 leg.

Next week the Engineers travel to Bates for the New England Division III
Championship.  On paper it looks as though Tufts University and Williams
College will be fighting it out for the overall title while MIT will be
fighting for third place, but hoping Tufts or Williams drops the ball so the
Engineers can take advantage of it.

RETURN TO INDOOR


