


  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

MIT Men and Women Dominate Bates and Colby in Season Opener

Alumni Bring Strong Contingent to Alumni/ae Meet

January 10, 2015

Kicking off the 2015 Indoor Track & Field Season, MIT tried something new from
a competitive standpoint. Due to calendar challenges, the Engineers combined
their 42nd annual Alumni/ae Meet with the annual Bates/Colby/MIT tri-meet.
While the event had its challenges, such as some events were only scored for
alums (3K, 4x200) and some only scored for the varsity teams (600, 1000, 5K,
4x400, DMR), by all accounts the meet was a resounding success. In the end,
MIT swept all victories, winning both the men's varsity and women's varsity
events, defeating the Bates and Colby alums in both genders and the varsity
took down the undermanned "Has Beens".

Both Bates and Colby were very gracious in agreeing to this format. They got
the word out to their alums, but with relatively short notice a total of nine
participants represented the alumni teams for the Maine schools. Those who did
attend faired quite well. Mike Martin, formerly of Bates, earned fourth place
overall in the 3K, placing first among alums in 8:56.92. Rich McNeil, also of
Bates and a former MIT assistant coach, placed second overall in the Weight
Throw and fourth overall in the Shot Put, taking first place among alums.
Chris Murtagh finished fourth overall for the Bates alums and second in the
alumni portion of the meet. Representing the women's side for the Bates
alumnae, Abby Alexander, Kallie Nixon, Kristen Poulin, and Tina Tobin took
down the MIT alumnae in the 4x200 Relay. For Colby, Will Barron was fifth
overall in the Shot Put and second in the alumni competition, while Dan
Vassallo was sixth overall in the Mile and second to Justin Bullock '14 of MIT
in the alumni competition.

Having performed poorly in their annual Intrasquad Meet prior the holiday
break, the MIT student-athletes were on notice by their captains and coaching
staff that more was expected with regard to preparation and competitiveness.
That message was apparently received loud and clear as the Engineers performed
very well, winning 14 of the 18 events for the women's competition and 11 of
the 18 events on the men's side of the ledger. The final score of the varsity
competition was 189.5 for MIT to 107.5 for Bates and 47 for Colby in the
women's meet and 194 for MIT, 103 for Bates and 57 for Colby in the men's
meet, using a 7-5-4-3-2-1 scoring format. In the MIT vs. Alumni/ae meet, the
varsity took down the alums 88 to 33 for the men and 92-25 for the women,
using a scoring system of 5-3-1.

Their were many superb performances by MIT. Middle-Distance runners Colin
Godwin '17 and Sarah Quinn '16 ran away with double victories. Godwin took the
Mile (4:22.41) and 1000 (2:36.96) while Quinn won the Mile (5:01.0) and 800
(2:22.83). Veronica Szklarzewski '15 was not only a double winner in the
Triple Jump (35-1 3/4) and 60 Meter Dash (8.05), but also took second in the
Long Jump (16-3 3/4) and anchored the winning 4x200 Relay. Hannah Chen '18 has
embraced the team concept fostered by the Engineers better than most freshmen
and responded with a 26.71 victory in the 200, second place in the 60 Meter
Dash in 8.11 after running 8.09 in the trials, a second place in the 60HH in
9.47 and an amazing 59.2 anchor leg in the 4x400 to almost pull out a come
from behind victory. Matt Deyo '17 ran an excellent 8:37.55 3K victory,
clicking off 69 second quarters on the tight turns of the MIT track. Ellen
Liverpool '15 continued her amazing trend of setting personal bests, winning
the 20lb. Weight Throw at 53-7 3/4. Nicole Zeinstra '16 showed she has her
sights set on Nationals as she took first place honors in the 5K by nearly a
minute with a 17:43.12 PR.

From the perspective of dominating events, the male horizontal jumpers
representing MIT certainly stood out. In the Triple Jump, Angel Echevarria '16
led a one through four sweep with a 46-3 1/4 victory, and Carrington Motley
'16 took the victory in the Long Jump at 21-4 3/4, leading his teammates to a
1-2-4-5-6 domination. While Bates College took victories in both the men's 60
Meter Dash and 60HH, MIT claimed second through fifth in both events, led by
Michael Kaba '16 in 7.19 and 8.58 respectively. Luca Cacopardo '18 led a
1-3-4-5 finish in the 200 with an impressive 22.95 victory out of lane three.
Sam Parker '15 brought a sense of senior year urgency to the 800, leading
start to finish to win in 1:55.03. Teammate Rick Paez '15 was close behind in
1:56.61 for second place. Another event where the men lost, but dominated was
the 5K. Bates Tully Hannan took the victory in 15:25.56, but Tech took the
next five places, led by Brian Gilligan '17, all under 16:00.

The Tech women dominated in a few events. They swept one through five in the
60 Meter Dash, led by Szklarzewski and Chen. They also swept the top five
places in the Pole Vault, led by Cimmy Virdi '16 at 12-2 1/2. The next four
places were all at 10-2 3/4. Nneoma Okonkwo '18 led a 1-2-3 Long Jump finish
with a leap of 17-2 1/4. Maryann Gong took first place honors in the 1000 in
3:00.59 as her teammates backed her up with places 3-4-5.

The MIT alumni performances were led by Omari Stephens '08, taking the Pole
Vault and leading an alumni sweep at 14-8 and third in the 60HH in 8.95.
Jordan Mizerak '14 took top scoring honors, claiming second in the Pole Vault
at 13-8 1/4, second in the High Jump at 6-0 and third in the Long Jump with a
leap of 20-02 1/2. Tyler Singer-Clark took two thirds, 7.31 in the 60 Meter
Dash and 23.19 in the 200. Justin Bullock '14 earned second in the Mile with
his 4:22.47. Thad Wozniak '06 keeps getting better with age, claiming second
in the Long Jump at 20-09 1/4. Mitch Kelley '11 represented the thrower "Has
Beens" with a second place in the Shot Put at 39-10 3/4. Logan Trimble '13
dropped down in distance, taking third place in the 400 in 55.96. Roy Wedge
'14 placed third in the 3K in 9:23.46. Matt Falk '12 can still get it done,
taking third in the High Jump at 5-8. Nate Sharpe '09 completed the Pole Vault
sweep at 13-02 1/4. Finally, Zach Traina '05, Singer-Clark, Wozniak and
Bullock took advantage of a disqualification in the 4x200 to win the 4x200
Relay.

For the MIT Alumnae, Lauren Kuntz '13 won the Pole Vault on misses at 12-2
1/2. Martina de Geus '14 led a 1-2-3 sweep in the 400 with a 65.35 victory.
Stephanie Birkhimer '14 earned second place in the Triple Jump at 31-1 and
third place in the 60HH in 10.77. Portia Jones '12 made a last minute decision
to race the 200 and earned a very close second place in 26.73. Claiming second
and third in that 400 sweep were Jamie Priest (Simmons) '12 and Kaitlin Allen
'14 in 67.92 and 69.11 respectively. Taking second place in the 800, Alexandra
Taylor '14 ran 2:30.38. Emily Cole (Hwang) '09 placed third in the Pole Vault
at 10-8 3/4 to close out the scoring for the Alumnae.

Also participating were Nate Ball '05, Patrick Barragan '08, Ethan Crain '96,
Mike DeMassa '97, Caroline Figgatt '11, Karin Fisher '11, Kyle Hannon '13,
Eric Khatchadourian '06, Albert Lau '72, Nick Leonard '11, Maggie Lloyd '12,
Peter Mulligan '08, Joe Roy-Mayhew '08, Justin Schmidt '10, Bill Singhose '90
and Peter Mulligan '08. Cheering for their teammates were Kirsten Aarsvold
'11, Dave Afshartous '89, Alina Gatowski '11, Dan Harper '12, Tom Hansen '74,
Brooke Johnson '13, Don Shobrys '75, Jason Tong '79, and CK Umachi '12.

Next week, MIT travels to Bowdoin College to compete in a 5-way competition
with Bowdoin, RPI, Springfield and WPI with hopes of moving to 6-0.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Vaidyanathan Leads Engineers With High Jump Record

January 24, 2015

Preethi Vaidyanathan '15 led MIT performances at the Art Farnham Invitational
held at MIT's Shobrys and Aronson indoor track. Her 5'5" PR set a new MIT
record, tying her for 10th on the NCAA Division III list.

This meet was the first of four weekends in which MIT will be competing in
non-scoring invitationals as they focus on preparing themselves for the four
weeks of championships that follow. Giving many of the runners the weekend off
from competing, the focus was on individuals performing at a level to qualify
for the New England Division III Championships, and for those who were already
qualified, to work on getting an NCAA Division III Championship mark.

In the field events there were many improvements by Tech athletes. Ken Cooper
'15 had a season best in the Weight Throw, winning with a toss of 58-4 3/4.
Abe Gertler '18 vaulted a season best of 13-1 1/2 and Sam Ravnaas '18 vaulted
a PR, also clearing 13-1 1/2. Not to be left out, Luke Gray '18 cleared 12-1
1/2 for a PR as he prepared for his Heptathlon debut next week. Arinze Okeke
'17 won the Triple Jump with a 46-10 3/4 indoor personal best, which moved him
up to number five on the MIT all-time list. Cody Bratten '18 put the shot 40-7
for a personal best.

The Weight Throw was the premier event for MIT on the women's side as all five
competitors set either personal or season bests. Ellen Liverpool '15 led the
way with the top throw in New England Division III, winning with a toss of
53-9 1/4, putting her seventh on the NCAA List. Ashley Wheeler '15 was second
with her own PR of 49-7 1/4. Jackie Vahey '17 also had a personal best, a
three foot improvement to 49-6 1/2. Ariela Slutsky '18 moved to number nine on
the MIT all-time list with a throw of 43-7 and Isabella Stuopis '16 had a
season best of 43-3 1/4. All five MIT throwers are among the top nine in MIT
history. The Pole Vault was one of the top field events for the women as
season bests were produced by Abby Klein '15 clearing 11-6 1/2, and Joanna
Chen '15 clearing 11-0 1/4. Haley Strouf '18 had season bests in the Long Jump
at 16-5 3/4 in winning that event, and 30-4 1/4 in the Shot Put.

On the track, starting with the shorter events, Richard Lu '16 had a season
best in the 60 with a 7.28. Michael Kaba '16 had a season best by .01, running
8.53 in the 60HH. In the 200, both Lu and Chris Sweeney '18 ran to season
bests of 23.46 and 23.47 respectively. Brandon Corts '17 and Danny Newman '17
ran season bests in the 400, sprinting to times of 53.11 and 53.19. One of the
best performances was produced by Henry Tareque in the 600. Tareque ran a
perfect race, allowing everyone to go out too fast as he took ownership in the
back, running the correct pace to maximize his performance. Going into the
final 200 it was clear he would claim the victory. He passed his final
opponent about 40 meters from the finish, crossing the line in a personal best
of 1:25.39. Michael Picchini '18 and Caspar Stinn '18 placed first and second
with season bests in the 800 of 2:02.39 and 2:02.88. The highest quality race
for MIT with regard to New England Division III qualifying performances was
had in the 1000 where Sam Parker '15 won in 2:30.37, leading from start to
finish. Backing that up, Rick Paez '15 and Dan Kilcoyne '16 placed third and
fourth in 2:32.62 and 2:32.78. Thos performances have them currently ranked
second, seventh and eighth in New England. In the 3K, Allen Leung '15
qualified with a fine 8:41.85 time. In the 5K, Nicholas Waltman '18 ran a
spectacular 15:29.41 to qualify and Alex Knoedler '18 ran an impressive
personal best of 15:46.10.

The women held out many more runners, so not as many personal or season bests
were set. Veronica Szklarzewski '15, Kayla Harris '15 and Kendra Knittel '17
all ran season bests in the 60 Meter Dash, running 8.01, 8.11 and 8.24
respectively. Hannah Chen '18 won the 60HH with a personal best of 9.34.
Harris came back in the 200 to win with a season best of 26.88. Liz Cox '18
won the 800 with a season best of 2:24.31. Manolya Altan '18 had a nice
breakthrough, winning the 1000 in 3:12.64.

Next week, MIT will split their squad, sending most of their athletes to Tufts
for the Tufts Stampede on one of the fastest flat tracks in New England, and
the remaining runners to BU for the John Thomas Invitational, which
undoubtedly has the fastest banked track in the region if not the country.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Engineers Remain Undefeated, Led by National and Regional Level Performances

January 17, 2015

Entering the week of the Bowdoin College Invite, it was clear to the MIT
coaches that the men's and women's indoor track & field teams were suffering
through an abnormal number of injuries and illnesses, everything from mono to
foot injuries to hamstring strains to appendicitis. In total, six women and 10
men would be missing the weekend competition. The number of points Tech would
give up left them concerned about their ability to win the meet. In addition,
MIT would not be trying to maximize their points as there were some qualifying
needs that needed to be taken care of regarding New England Division III and
NCAA Division III Championships. So, when the performance lists came out
Friday evening it was a big relief to realize the Engineers should not have to
worry about the outcome of the meet and could focus on their performances, and
that they did.

When the dust settled at the end of the day, and the hoarse voices from MIT
athletes ceased their never ending cheering, the women won 14 of 19 events,
scoring 283 points to 105 for WPI, 95 for host Bowdoin College, 56 for
Springfield, 41 for RPI and 4 for Colby-Sawyer. The men cruised to a similar
margin of victory with 11 victories in 18 events, scoring 204.33 to 102 for
WPI, 95 for Bowdoin, 91.5 for RPI, 42.83 for Springfield and 19.33 for Colby-
Sawyer.

Sarah Quinn '16 led things off with a 16:56.65 5K victory, setting the MIT
record by nine seconds on a flat track and leads the country for DIII by over
25 seconds at this time. She hammered out 40 second laps through 3200 meters,
hitting the 1600 in 5:20 and 10:42 for 3200 before slowing a bit in the final
1600. Quinn returned at the end of the meet to anchor the 4x800 to victory
with a 2:20.5 split. Teammate Elaine McVay '15 added a very strong 17:45.49
for a second place finish.

Hannah Chen '18 was responsible for 28.5 points, winning the 60HH in a
personal best of 9.37, the 200 in 26.59, placing third in the 60 meter dash in
8.12 and anchoring a come from behind effort in the 4x400 with a 59.2 leg to
win in 4:12.27.

Not to be outdone, Maryann Gong '17, won the Mile with a national leading time
of 4:57.10, took the victory in the 800 in 2:19.67 and ran a 63 split on the
third leg of the 4x400 Relay.

Christina Wicker '17 placed second in the Mile in 4:58.48, the third best time
in NCAA Division III, then came back to win the 1000 in 3:03.41 and led off
the winning 4x800 Relay in 2:23.

Nicole Zeinstra '16 added to the middle-distance, distance domination by first
placing third in the Mile with a conservatively run 5:09.00, as she saved a
little something for her 10:09.65 victory in the 3K.

One victory came as a surprise. Cindy Huang '15 in her first race back from
injury, and fatigued from a red-eye flight, returning from a job interview,
put all that aside to win the 600 in a personal best of 1:40.44. She then ran
a 2:20.7 third leg on the 4x800 Relay.

In the field events, Cimmy Virdi '16 won the Pole Vault on misses at 12-3 1/2,
the second best vault in the country for Division III. Ellen Liverpool '15
took first place honors in the 20 lb. Weight Throw at 51-10 1/2. Isabella
Stuopis '16 made it a sweep of the throwing events by winning the Shot Put at
42-3 1/4. Natalie Alper '17, competing in the Long Jump for the first time as
a collegian, led a 1-2-3 sweep with her 16-10 3/4 leap.

There were many excellent non-winning, but placing performances by the
Engineers. Of particular note were two personal bests by Jackie Vahey '17.
Vahey placed fourth in the Weight Throw at 46-2 1/2 and third in the Shot Put
at 39-1.

Michael Kaba '17 led the way for the men, claiming three individual victories
to score 30 points in the 10-8-6-4-2-1 scoring format. Kaba had to run trials
in both the 60HH and the 60 Meter Dash to earn his way into the finals. His
first final was the 60HH, which he won in 8.54. His next final was the 60
Meter Dash, which he won with a new personal best of 7.13. His final event was
the 200, which he won in a narrow victory over teammate Luca Cacopardo '18,
the winner of the 400 in 51.08, 22.62 to 22.67. Kaba's 200 time is not only a
personal best, but faster than he had even run on a banked track in the past.

Matt Deyo '16 won the Mile in a personal best of 4:22.55. Although he did not
win in his second event, he did earn second in the 1000 in 2:35.91 as the
distance runner came down to work on some speed.

Also in the distance arena, Benji Xie '15 led wire to wire in the 5K, taking
first place honors in 15:04.79. Xie ran this effort by himself as the closest
competitor was 14 seconds back.

Three of MIT's victories came from the six field events. Marshall Wentworth
'16 won the Pole Vault at 13-1 1/2, having very solid attempts at 13-7.
Freshman Billy Ruschel jumped a personal best of 45-2 1/2 to take a one inch
victory from teammate Angel Echevarria '17. Ken Cooper '15 earned first place
in the Shot Put at 51-6 1/4. Cooper threw a season best of 57-3 3/4 in the
Weight Throw but was only able to garner third place in the very talented
field.

The Engineers won both the 4x400 and 4x800 Relay to put a nice ending to the
meet. In the 4x400, Chris Sweeney '18, who had earlier run a personal best of
8.68 in the 60HH for second place, led off with a quality 52.0 leg. Danny
Newman '17 ran a 52.8 second leg, handing off to Brandon Corts '17, who also
ran a 52.8 to bring the baton in just about even for the lead as he handed off
to Derek Barnes '17. Barnes, who had earlier thought he won the 400 in 50.54,
but had been disqualified for running on the lane line, anchored the relay
home with a 51.0 for a 3:28.84 cumulative time. Dan Kilcoyne '16, fresh off
injury and a fourth place finish in the 800 earlier in the day, led off in
2:00.9. Rick Paez '15, who had placed second in that same 800 earlier in the
day, ran the second leg in 1:59.6. Henry Tareque '17 faded a bit in the third
leg with a 2:04.0, but anchor leg, Sam Parker '15, who ran a personal best of
1:22.04 in placing second in the 600 earlier, took the baton and cruised to
victory in 1:57.3 for a fine cumulative time of 8:01.67.

Next weekend, MIT will host the Art Farnham Invitational. The goal will be to
rest many of the runners and limit most of the others to one or two special
efforts as the Engineers prepare for the stretch run leading to the
Championships that start on February 20.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Quinn, Gong and Godwin Post Excellent 3K Performances

December 6, 2014

Fresh off a successful Cross Country season where the women placed second at
the NCAA Division III Championship and the men were eighth, three individuals,
Sarah Quinn '16, Maryann Gong '17 and Colin Godwin '17, all earning All
America honors at the championship two weeks ago, raced today at the Boston
University Indoor Track & Field Season Opener. The goal was to get a National
qualifying performance first thing in the 3K and then take a few days off
prior to gearing up for the bulk of the indoor season in February and March.

There was solid competition in both the men's and women's event, so there was
little worry that the pace would be fast enough. The women's race was first,
and as predicted the pace was quick, too quick. Quinn and Gong were planning
to run 78's for the first mile and try to pick it up from there. Both were at
the back of the pack, a good 30 meters from the leader and ran 75 for the
first 400. They stayed at the back as they slowed a bit and then got on pace,
hitting the 1600 right at the planned 5:12. Quinn sped up a bit too much at
that point, hitting the next 400 in 75 to take the lead while Gong did not
have the confidence and passion to go with her. Quinn threw in a 77, 78 and a
final 200 in 40 as her calves had been tight before she even started the race
and just got tighter as the race progressed. Her winning time of 9:42.74 was
just three tenths off of Gong's Varsity and Freshman record set last winter.
Gong closed well to finish in second place in 9:49.36. Quinn's time will
certainly qualify for the NCAA Championship in March, but Gong's time may not
hold. Based on their final pace, Quinn's and Gong's converted 3200 times would
have been 10:23 and 10:27 respectively.

In the men's race, Godwin was running his first collegiate track race, and his
first track race in over two years as he had been injured his entire senior
year of high school track and all of his freshman year last year at MIT. The
goal was to run 67-68 400's the entire race. The initial pace was perfect and
Godwin settled to the rear of the lead pack. His initial 400 was 68 and he
continued that pace through the 1600 in 4:33. He was hoping for 4:30, but was
becoming cautious as he is still getting accustomed with the discomfort of
racing at that level. Godwin slowed to 71 and then 72 before picking it up
again with a 69 and 34 final 200 to finish sixth in 8:39.00. The converted sub
9:15 3200 would have been a nice personal best for the freshman eligible
Godwin.

MIT finishes the pre-exam and holiday period with their annual Intrasquad Meet
next Saturday, then take three weeks away from organized practice before
starting up again in early January.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Vaidyanathan Sets Another High Jump Record

February 14, 2015

Leading the way for the Engineers at the MIT Gordon Kelly Invitational was
Preethi Vaidyanathan '15 in the High Jump where she set another MIT record,
this one at 5' 6". While a large majority of the runners were over at Boston
University, all but three of the field event athletes were at their home meet.
In all 13 women's teams and 12 men's teams participated in the meet.

Of the 12 field events competed, MIT took eight victories, four for the men
and four for the women. In addition to Vaidyanathan's victory, Jennifer Tylock
'17 won the Pole Vault at 10-11 3/4. Teammate Maeve Devlin '18 cleared the
same height but lost the event on misses. Ellen Liverpool '15 remained
undefeated in Division III, taking the Weight Throw at 53-11 3/4. Michelle
Johnson '15 claimed first place honors in the Triple Jump at 36-4.

As is customary, Ken Cooper '15 won his two specialties, the Weight Throw and
the Shot Put. In the Weight Cooper threw 54-10 and in the Shot 49-8 1/4. Ben
Schreck '15 cleared his first height this year, and won the Pole Vault in
doing so, clearing 15-1 as he returns from a hamstring injury. Arinze Okeke
'17 won the Triple Jump at 45-8 1/2.

While there were very few MIT runners, a few victories were claimed by the
Engineers. Nick O'Connell won the 1000 in 2:36.94. Richard Lu '16 won the 200
in 23.05 for a new PR. Veronica Szklarzewski '15 won the 60 Meter Dash in
7.98. Manolya Altan '18 won the 800 in 2:27.77. Hannah Chen '18 won the 60HH
in a personal best of 9.33, and she led off the winning 4x200 team. The
quartet of Chen, Kayla Harris '15, Kendra Knittel '17, and Szklarzewski ran
1:46.13, the fastest time in New England Division III this year.

The New England Division III Championships are next weekend. The men hope to
defend their title and claim their fifth indoor title in six years. The women,
having not won since 2009, placing second the fast five years, are ready to
take back the crown.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Albritten Sets Freshman 200 Record

March 7, 2015

MIT competed in four events at the IC4A Championships, hosted by Boston
University. The IC4A Championship is the oldest championship in the country,
with the indoor championship starting in 1922.

First up for MIT was Colin Godwin '17 in the Mile Run. Colin had run 4:11.15
last week, but with the banked track conversion, was given credit for a
4:14.37. The time he would need to make the NCAA Division III Championship
next week would be about a two second improvement. The Mile Run was set up as
four trial heats with 10 advancing to tomorrow's final. Godwin was in the
first heat, lane one. He was sort of asleep at the start, immediately finding
himself in the back of the pack. With a quick burst he went around,
positioning himself towards the front. Unfortunately the race was very
strategic, in other words slow, as they came through the 800 in 2:14. He had
been reacting to a lot of moves and kept getting stuck on the rail and ending
up in the back again. So when the group moved he was not in position to
immediately respond. He did run a 2:02 final 800 for a 4:16.75, but not what
he needed to advance to Nationals.

Next for Tech was Tre Albritten '18 in the 200. Despite standing up at the
start, and forcing it too much at the finish, he broke his own freshman
record, posting a 21.99 time.

Benji Xie '15 represented the Engineers in the 5K. Having run a 14:30 earlier
in the year, Xie needed to run about two seconds faster to guarantee a spot at
Nationals. The early pace was fast, spreading the 23 runners out in a nice
line, allowing Xie to tuck in without contact. His first 1600 was a 4:32 and
he looked very strong despite the quick pace. The second 1600 slowed for the
group in which he was running, giving him an 8:37 3K and 9:13 3200. As the
fatigue set in, Xie was unable to prevent the pace from decaying to 71
quarters. As the kicks started in the final 800, Xie was only able to maintain
the pace, finishing with a 35 final 200 after splitting 14:57 for 4800 meters.
His final time of 14:33.12 means he will have to wait and see if some of those
ahead of him on the list decide to run the DMR or 3K if qualified in those
events.

The final event for MIT was the 4x400 relay. MIT was sitting fifth on the DIII
National list and wanted to move up. At the NCAA Championship the 4x400 is run
as three sections of four. Having one of the fastest four times means they
would get into the fastest and final section next Saturday. Running fresh,
States Lee '16, Derek Barnes '16, Sam Parker '15 and Michael Kaba '16 were
hoping to run in the mid 3:14's or better. Their best to date was 3:15.20. Lee
started out with the intent of getting the break, but was not aggressive
enough on the homestretch. He was a half step behind the inside runner as the
outside runners crashed down on him, trying to edge him out. Lee stumbled,
ending up behind everyone. On the backstretch he went to pass on the inside,
and while successful, was bumped and slowed again. By the time he handed off
the time was a dismal 49.4. Barnes went out hard, but relaxed. He took the
baton in third place and handed off in third, splitting 48.6. Parker lost a
place, but ran a solid 49.0 leg. Kaba took off in a tie for third, but could
not get around the runner. About this time his achilles started bothering him.
After a slow 23 first 200 that saw him lose significant ground to the other
anchor legs, Kaba backed off, finishing in 50.5 for a cumulative time of
3:17.57. Given that Lee can run at least a second faster and Kaba two seconds
faster, there is still hope the foursome will put it together at the NCAA's.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
q |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Gong and Virdi Lead MIT to 4th at NCAA Division III Championship

March 13-14, 2015

Entering the NCAA Division III Championship the women were ranked fourth and
the men 16th based on their entries. The women had been ranked first for the
previous three weeks, but taking Sarah Quinn '16 out of the meet cost the
Engineers significant points as she was high ranked in the Mile, 3K and 5K.
Quinn injured her knee a month earlier and was not able to run. The women were
hoping for a podium finish, which awards the top four teams with an NCAA
Championship trophy.

The first event for MIT was the Women's Pole Vault. Cimmy Virdi '16 was seeded
first and was the defending National Champion. She also was awarded the NCAA
Division III New England Women's Indoor Field Event Athlete of the Year for
dominating her event all season. Abby Klein '15 was seeded 16th, having
qualified for the 17 person field for the first time. The opening height was
11-1 3/4, which Klein cleared on her first attempt. One competitor did not
compete due to a broken arm, but everyone who attempted that first height
cleared it. At 11-7 3/4 two women fouled out, one of them being Klein. At 12-1
1/2 five more fouled out leaving only nine competitors remaining. At 12-5 1/2
six more fouled out leaving three remaining, with one of them being Virdi who
had not entered the competition as yet. She entered at 12-7 1/2, clearing on
the first attempt. 12-9 1/2 claimed Silva of Bowdoin, leaving just Virdi and
Kalsey of Westminster. Both cleared 13-1 1/2, but Virdi did it on her first
attempt and Kalsey her third attempt. Neither vaulter cleared 13-3 1/2 giving
Virdi the title and 10 points for her team.

The trials of the Mile Run were next. Maryann Gong '17, running the first of
four races, was in the second heat. They were taking the top three from each
heat plus the next four fastest times to the final. The first heat was
pedestrian with the 800 split at 2:42. It picked up from there, but the fourth
place time was 5:13, so all Gong had to do was be among the top seven, and
faster than 5:13 and she would make the finals. With the DMR later in the
afternoon she did not want to expend more energy than necessary. She started
off casually in 39 for the initial 200, but that put her in the lead. She
realized no one was going to take the lead and so ran what was comfortable,
which was 76 quarters, coming through the 800 in 2:32. The third quarter
slowed a bit to a 3:50 as she finally relinquished the lead. The pace picked
up as Gong went with the two leaders, running a 5:02.09 for third place,
automatically qualifying for the final. Gong was awarded the NCAA Division III
Women's Indoor Track Athlete of the Year for her amazing season thus far and
hoped to continue the domination of her events.

Colin Godwin '17, a freshman from an eligibility standpoint, just squeaked
into the NCAA field for the Mile Run as he was seeded 22nd going into the
selection, but some entered other events, opening up the opportunity. Godwin
seized that opportunity. He mistakenly took the lead at the start and no one
was about to take it from him. With the first heat running 4:15 at the front,
the pace needed to be honest if anyone hoped to qualify on time. Godwin split
66 and 2:12 before others came up and took the lead, picking up the pace to a
3:15. Godwin almost got caught on the rail, but got out okay, went around two
runners and finished in 59 for a 4:14.59 second place finish and advancement
to tomorrow's final.

The Men's 400 was up with States Lee '16 seeded fifth going into the meet. He
drew lane three with them only using lanes three through six, giving him a
difficult shot at earning the break. With the wide turns and very short
straights, getting the break was key to making the final. Despite a well run
22.6, Lee was clearly going to be in second at the break. Unfortunately he
made the mistake of closing all the way down to the rail, allowing the outside
runner to box him in, causing him to break a little. Becoming frustrated and
trying to get out of the box on the backstretch, he got tangled with another
runner and fell hard. He got up and finished but well out of contention.

Sam Parker '15 was in the 800 trials and hoping to make it to the final for
the first time. He was in the second of two heats, so he knew that the first
heat was out reasonably fast. His heat began, but no one really took it out.
Parker was in second place at 29.0 at the 200 and still in second at 58.5. The
pace picked up in the third 200, dropping Parker back to third at the 600 in
1:26.1. When they picked up the pace further, Parker was unable to go with
them, finishing in 1:56.40 and out of the finals.

Ellen Liverpool '15 seemed to be out of her element in the Weight Throw. Not
having her throwing mates and usual team atmosphere threw her off a bit. Her
best throw was 52-2 3/4, finishing 1n 13th position.

In the 5K, Nicole Zeinstra '16 and Elaine McVay '15 were hoping to add some
points to the MIT total. The initial pace was quick. Zeinstra went out in the
middle of the 17 runner field, splitting 5:18 at the 1600. McVay's lower back
was bothering her a lot prior to the race and appeared to be affecting her in
the race as well. She was pretty far back in the field, splitting a still
quick 5:22 at the 1600, much faster than she is accustomed to running. McVay
continued to fade, dropping out after 3200. Zeinstra stayed in eighth place,
coming through 3200 in 10:51, but then started slowing down quite a bit. At
4600 meters they rang the bell for what they thought was the final lap.
Everyone was confused, but started sprinting. When the runners crossed the
finish line, thinking the race was over, they were told to keep running by
their coaches as there was one more lap remaining. Since this completely
changed the results, the NCAA decided to take the places as they were at the
end of 4800 meters. That left Zeinstra in 11th place and out of the scoring.

The final race of the night was the Distance Medley Relay. the start of the
race was very unusual in that no one wanted to take the 1200 out. Christina
Wicker '17 was representing MIT in the opening leg and could not get out of
the pack. The 400 split was 71 and slowed down from there. The 800 split was
2:27 and things finally opened up. Wicker had used a lot of energy trying to
get out of the pack earlier in the race but was unable to do so. This cost her
in the end as she handed off in fourth in 3:40.3. Hannah Chen '18 immediately
moved into third, passing on the turn. She died a bit in the final 100, fading
to fourth at the handoff. Cindy Huang '15 was anxious and left too early,
having to slow down a lot at the handoff. She ran a very intelligent, well-
paced race, splitting 33, 67, 1:41 and 2:16.5 despite her injured achilles,
moving into third at the handoff, between six and seven seconds behind the two
leaders. Gong had nothing in mind but winning and went out to get the job
done. Her initial quarter was 71.1 then slowed to 2:25.3 as she led the chase
group, having closed to within four seconds at the half way mark. In the next
lap Gong caught the team from St. Thomas and aimed for the leader from
Chicago. After splitting a 75 she started closing hard. With 100 to go she
went around the leader, but the runner from St. Thomas had stayed on her heels
and went around Gong at the same time. This surprised Gong who thought she was
home free. Her sprint home was for second place, not first. The final time was
11:47.43.

Going into day two, the women had 18 points and were tied for second with
Illinois Wesleyan. UW Oshkosh was in first with 24 points. The men were yet to
get on the board. In the Men's Triple Jump, the first event of day two, Arinze
Okeke '17 had a pretty good first jump at 45-1 1/2, but fell back, losing a
little distance in the process. His heel had been bothering him, but he also
messed up his approach on the two remaining jumps, not completing either one.
His one successful jump was not enough to make it to the final.

The Women's Mile was next for MIT, which meant Gong would be in her third mile
in two days. Although she was favored, she was tired. The pace was pretty
slow, which should have worked to her advantage. The half mile split was 2:34
and the three quarter at 3:48. Gong took off, but off such a slow pace, others
were able to go with her. Her 68 final 400 was not enough as two went around
her in the final 100, leaving her in third place in 4:57.42. MIT now had 24
points.

Colin Godwin was up next for the Men's Mile final. Unlike the women's race,
the men's pace was fast. The quarter splits were 63, 2:07 and 3:12. Godwin
made a move at 1000 meters, moving up through the pack, but then he stopped
his forward progrss in the pack and slid back. When the group moved he was
able to go with them, but not at the same speed. He finished in 4:15.36, a
very respectable rookie showing.

Going into the Women's 3K, MIT was in sixth place as a team and needed as many
points as possible to get the team on the podium. Gong was tired but
determined. Wicker was also in the race, and seemed ready to get the job done.
Most of the top runners had run the 5K the night before, so keeping the pace
sane was not going to be an issue. The first mile was 5:20 for Wicker and 5:21
for Gong who was chilling in the back of the pack. With 1000 meters to go the
pace picked up. Gong went with them, but Wicker did not. With 200 to go, Gong
took off, opening up a 10 meter lead by the finish as her 33 final 200 gave
her the victory in 9:47.62.

The 10 points earned in the 3K put MIT in fourth place, the final podium
finish receiving an NCAA Championship trophy. With one event remaining, the
4x400, only one team could bump MIT off the podium, UW Eau Claire. They were
the third seed going into the 4x400. Finishing second would tie them with the
Engineers, and winning would bump MIT out altogether. Leading in the third leg
up until the final baton exchange, Eau Claire came from behind in the final
100 and nearly claimed the win, losing first place by .05 seconds. Their
second place tied them with MIT for fourth place with 34 points.

The men's 4x400 Relay was the final event and MIT was seeded seventh, putting
them in the second of three sections. Knowing it was incredibly difficult to
pass on the short straights, States Lee was determined to take the break. He
succeeded, but his 22.3 first lap it took to accomplish that task, took its
toll in the final 100. Although he maintained the inside lane, he had slipped
to second at the handoff, clocking a 49.5. Derek Barnes '16 left a little
early, had to slow to receive the baton, which allowed another team to pass,
putting Tech in third. He ran one of his best legs ever, finishing in 49.3.
Sam Parker '15 also left early, again losing ground and momentum at the
handoff, allowing another team to slip past, putting MIT in fourth. Parker ran
50.5, losing some ground before handing off to Michael Kaba '16. Kaba was not
able to make up ground on the anchor legs, and his achilles was clearly
affecting him in the final 100, finishing with a total time of 3:20.89.

The Indoor season is over, but the Outdoor season has already started for many
teams around the country. MIT will get underway with a meet at Bridgewater
State College next Saturday, a meet where only their distance runners will
compete.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Women Deliver New England Division III Title

Six Individual Victories Lead the Way

February 20-21, 2015

The women began the New England Division III Championship, hosted by Smith
College, with three event victories, taking all the spirit out of the other
teams. They never took their collective foot off the gas until the final three
events, easily outdistancing the other 28 scoring teams with 151 points to 86
points for second place Williams College.

The first three field events were the Pole Vault, Weight Throw and Triple
Jump. With these three and the first running event, the Distance Medley Relay
(DMR), the Engineers wanted to put their opponents away and not give them a
thought of an upset. In the Weight Throw both Ellen Liverpool '15 and Jackie
Vahey '17 put themselves in position to place first and second on their second
throw. Ashley Wheeler '15 added a sixth place to give Tech 21 points with the
10-8-6-5-4-3-2-1 scoring format. Liverpool threw a personal best 54-8 3/4 to
put her 11th on the NCAA Division III list. The top 17 women in each event and
top 12 relay teams make the NCAA Division III Championship in three weeks.
Vahey also threw a PR, hers 50-8.

The Pole Vault yielded nearly as many points. The top two ranked vaulters in
the country were going at it as Cimmy Virdi '16 of MIT was set to dual Erin
Silva '15 of Bowdoin College, both tied at 12-9 1/2 entering the meet. Maeve
Devlin '18 earned a three way tie for fifth at 10-11 3/4 while Abby Klein '15
placed third at 11-5 3/4. Silva cleared 12-5 1/2 on her second attempt to take
the lead as Virdi needed all three attempts to make the height. However, at
12-11 1/2, Virdi cleared on her first attempt while Silva failed to make the
height to give Virdi the top vault in NCAA Division III and the victory. MIT
claimed 19 points for a total of 40 in the first two events and their main
rival, Williams College, scored zero.

In the Triple Jump, Michelle Johnson had the day she has been waiting for,
adding nearly a foot to her season best, jumping 37-3 3/4 to place sixth in
the event when she was not seeded to score. Williams earned second place for
eight points, but the route was on.

Three freshmen led the way for MIT in the DMR, anchored by Nicole Zeinstra
'16. Liz Cox '18 started things off with the 1200, leading start to finish in
a superb 3:45. Annie Dai '18 ran her best 400 of the year with a 60.1 leg to
open the lead up to 10 meters. Lauren Paul '18 ran her best race of the
season, a 2:22 800, to give Zeinstra a small lead to start the 1600 leg. A
small lead was more than the distance runner needed. Running splits of 75, 76,
77, Zeinstra was told to back off in the final quarter as she had built up a
40 meter lead and was scheduled to race the 3K at the end of the meet.
Finishing with a 5:06 split to total 12:14.35, Tech added 10 more points to
their total. Williams managed a third place finish for six points.

In the next final, the 5K, MIT added more big points. Elaine McVay '15 took
control of the race at the start, attempting to run 83 second quarters with
hopes of qualifying for the NCAA Championship. Running 5:27 for the 1600,
McVay was ahead of schedule, but in the second 1600 she ran 5:36 as she lost
focus and the lead, falling behind by quite a bit. In the final 1800 meters,
the leader started to falter and McVay found her groove again, running another
5:36 with an 81 last quarter and then a 39 final lap to finish first in
17:18.80, a flat track personal best. Mary Eccles '18 ran a very smart race,
coming from behind to place eighth in a 17 second PR of 18:00.64. Williams
managed two points for seventh place making the overall score 64-16.

In the 4x200, an event the Engineers tend not to run in these championships,
MIT ran Kendra Knittel '17, Veronica Szklarzewski '15, Kayla Harris '15 and
Annie Dai '18, pulling Hannah Chen '18 due to the number of events for the
freshman and the close proximity of those events. As the early sections were
running, Szklarzewski was competing in the Long Jump where she had made the
finals with a nice personal best, sitting in eighth place. With time for one
more jump before she had to sprint over to be ready for the start of the
4x200, the senior popped a 17-8 3/4 performance to move up to fourth place and
set a new MIT record. Knittel opened up with a competitive 26.7 despite having
to start in lane four. The LJ took something out of Szklarzewski who was not
focused, only producing a 27.5. Harris and Dai both ran 26.4 to get MIT a
sixth place.

Both the High Jump and Shot Put, the final two field events were going on at
this time. Natalie Alper '18 was also in the LJ, jumping a personal best of
17-1 1/4 to place seventh. Going back and forth between the two events, the
freshman took two attempts to clear 4-11 and 5-1, but cleared 5-3 on her first
attempt. Preethi Vaidyanathan '15 also cleared 5-3 on her first attempt,
giving MIT two of the eight who cleared that height. At 5-5, Vaidyanathan made
the height on her second attempt. Alper just missed clearing it, but earned
fifth place by virtue of her first attempt make at 5-3. No one cleared 5-7,
giving Vaidyanathan a huge second place finish. Again Williams failed to
score. MIT had 87 points and the meet was just about half way over.

Isabella Stuopis '16 needed her final throw to move from fourth to second with
a 42-5 1/4 effort in the Shot Put. Jackie Vahey was unable to score, placing
one place south of scoring.

In the Mile run, an event where MIT had the top three seeds, Sarah Quinn '16
was pulled from the event as well as the 3K due to a knee injury. Christina
Wicker '17 was seeded second but was feeling ill from a cold and was letting
it mess with her confidence. Fortunately the solid Maryann Gong '17 was ready
to go. Gong took the lead with a 72 first quarter. Only one opponent, along
with Wicker, dared go with her. Gong hit the half at 2:25 and Wicker was right
behind. Gong was at the three quarter mark in 3:41. Wicker gave up just prior
to that, falling way back. Gong took off, finishing with a 70 to run 4:51.12,
the top time in Division III and a new MIT record.

Hannah Chen was up in the 400 after failing by .005 to advance to the final of
the 60HH even though she ran a personal best of 9.27. Unfortunately she drew
lane one on one of the tightest turns for an indoor track. Chen ran a great
race but was last at the break as she just could not generate speed in lane
one. On the second lap she closed well when all were running on the inside
lane, moving up to fourth place, missing first by .38 seconds. There is little
doubt she would have won if in an outside lane for the first lap.

Szklarzewski ran a personal best of 7.92 in the 60 Meter Dash trials and was
up in the finals. As they were preparing to start the runner next to her false
started. This shook Szklarzewski a bit, causing a less than great start.
However, she ran 7.98 to beat one other finalist to place sixth, earning three
unexpected points.

The 800 was up, which meant the amazing Gong was back on the track. Joining
her was number one seed Cindy Huang '15. Although Huang is managing an
achilles tendon injury, she did not let it affect her race mentality. Taking
the lead with three hundred to go after a crisp 66 first 400, Gong was slow to
respond. With 250 to go Gong moved to join Huang. Both Huang and Gong were in
control until Huang started to falter with 100 to go. Gong sprinted away with
a 2:14.87 victory while Huang hung on for a third place 2:16.14.

Wicker gives up at times, but she often comes back very well. She did just
that in the 1000. While she could not stay with the leader the entire race,
she fought very hard for second place, running 72, 2:24 and 2:59.63 to earn
MIT eight points.

Chen was back in the 200, this time getting lane three of the five lanes being
used. She raced very well, placing fourth in 26.20, .44 out of first. Again, a
more favorable lane may have made all the difference between first and fourth

At this point, MIT put on the brakes. They pulled McVay from the upcoming 3K,
pulled Chen from the 4x400 and scratched from the 4x800 despite being seeded
number one.

Zeinstra was back in the 3K, as was Eccles, who was running her final race of
the season prior to getting ready for the outdoor season. Zeinstra was patient
with the slow pace, 5:27 at the 1600, taking the lead for a short period
before letting the heat get to her. Her focus went to how she was feeling
instead of the race. She lost the lead, but then rallied with a 39 second
final lap to hold onto second place in 10:11.09. Eccles was in the first and
unseeded section of the 3K. She ran a very competitive race, running a new
personal best of 10:28.51, finishing third in her section. Those in the fast
section faded at the end, allowing Eccles to finish seventh overall,
completing an impressive day.

The final event for MIT was the 4x400 relay. With Chen out, it was going to be
difficult for the Engineers to score. Knittel led off and was totally out of
it at the start, putting her team behind with a 64.3 leadoff leg. Dai came
through again, running 60.9. Sam Fierro '18, injured all season, was the
replacement for Chen and ran 60.9. Harris came back with a 60.2 to give MIT a
4:06.3, missing the top eight by one place and .39 seconds.

Next week is the NEICAAA Championship, which pits Division I, II and III
schools throughout New England against each other at Boston University. From
this point on MIT will be focusing on the NCAA Division III Championship. The
upcoming meet will be used to improve performances to get in position to make
the NCAA field and then score when there.



RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Maryann Gong Leads Engineers at NEICAAA Championship

February 27-28, 2015

MIT rested most of their distance athletes going into the NEICAAA Championship
at Boston University, but the athletes they did bring showed the mostly
Division I competition that in many cases Division III is as strong if not
better.

On day one, the women's DMR got things moving with a resounding win in a come-
from-behind victory with Maryann Gong '17 as the anchor. Christina Wicker '17
started things off with the 1200 leg. She initially went after the leader, but
when her 33 first 200 dropped her behind and her 68 dropped her farther
behind, she decided to race those in the chase pack. This she did well until
the the final 400, where after a 2:20 800 split she fell to a 3:35.9, still an
excellent finish. This put Tech pretty far behind and in fourth place. Hannah
Chen '18, who had already run an open 400 in a disappointing 58.21, came back
well, catching Tufts and handing off in third in 57.7. Cindy Huang '15 went
out too hard (31.1), but still made up ground on the chase group as she pulled
almost even with Middlebury at the handoff in 2:17.4. Gong immediately went to
second place as she calmly started off with a 34 first 200. As she split a 69,
she realized she was not making up any ground on first place, who was at least
eight seconds ahead, and seemed to lose a little passion. However, the leader
was obviously feeling her own 69 and once Gong learned of this she was
reinvigorated. Slowing down for Gong is still a 73 400. After two of these she
had closed to within thirty meters and had 400 remaining. She blasted a 70 to
take the lead and run away with the title in 11:36.78, the fastest time in
Division III this year. Her individual split was an impressive 4:45.6.

In the Pole Vault, Cimmy Virdi '16 cleared an indoor personal best of 13-1
1/2, placing third and maintaining a tie for the top spot in Division III.
Abby Klein '15 finally hit her goal, clearing 12-1 1/2 to place sixth and move
up to a five-way tie for 10th on the NCAA list.

Ellen Liverpool '15 missed winning the Weight Throw by two centimeters, but
was seeded third so she certainly improved on her seed. Her second place throw
was a personal best of 55-6 1/4 to move up to a tie for ninth in the National
ranking. Jackie Vahey '17 threw 51-1 for her own personal best, finishing
ninth in the competition.

Kendra Knittel '17 raced the 200, but came out high in the start, nearly ran
into the inside lane and lost focus from there. She ran 26.02, a respectable
time given her start.

Veronica Szklarzewski '15 ran 8.02 in the 60, a reasonable time given the soft
surface of the sprint lanes. In the Long Jump she did not have the amazing
jumps that netted her the MIT record last week, settling for 16-10 1/4.

For the men, States Lee '16 had the performance of the day, running a new MIT
record of 48.28 as he made the finals with the third fastest time of the day.
Derek Barnes '16 ran 49.34 in his heat.

In the 200, Tre Albritten '18 showed his sprint skills as he ran 22.00 out of
lane five, setting a new freshman record. Luca Cacopardo '18 ran a tremendous
200 out of lane three even though he felt a tug on his hamstring. His time was
22.29. Michael Kaba '16 ran 22.36 as he is recovering from the weight loss due
to a recent illness.

In the field events Ben Schreck '15, coming back from a nagging hamstring
injury cleared 15-9 to place second, just missing 16-1 and a shot at
Nationals. Ken Cooper '15 did not have his best day, but he did place seventh
with a 56-2 effort in the Weight Throw.

Dan Kilcoyne '16, despite missing key practices the past two weeks with an
illness, qualified for finals in the 1000 with a 2:31.75.

Sam Parker '15 and Rick Paez '15 raced the 800 trials. Parker
uncharacteristically took over the lead 100 meters into the race. He held the
lead through a 55.8 400 and then lost the lead on the backstretch, not
responding to the change in pace and finishing in 1:54.73. Paez was in a
different heat. He panicked over his position and the slow initial pace, moved
towards the front and proceeded to react to every move, exhausting himself by
500 meters. Although he ran 54.3 at the 400, he struggled home in 1:58.08.

At the end of day one, MIT women were in first place with 27 points while the
men were in sixth with 10 points.

Starting off day two the field events got the women scoring right off the bat.
Isabella Stuopis '16 threw a season best 43-6 to place fourth in the Shot Put.
At the same time, Michelle Johnson '15 set an MIT record of 37-6 1/2 to get
into finals and place eighth. Neither mark is quite enough to make it to the
NCAA's, but they have one more opportunity next week.

Maryann Gong was back on the track as the number one seed in the Mile. Through
the first half she was biding her time through splits of 73 and 2:29. As the
pace was deteriorating, Gong took off, immediately pushing the pace to 70
seconds per quarter. Absolutely no response was given by her opponents as she
powered to the win in 4:49.61, a new MIT record and the 10th fastest time in
DIII history.

In the High Jump Preethi Vaidyanathan '15 and Natalie Alper '17 were unable to
duplicate their magic from last weekend. Dealing with the soft jumping surface
helped neither athlete as Vaidyanathan made 5-3, the opening height, which
Alper failed to clear.

Christina Wicker came back in the 3K to see if she could improve her NCAA
performance to put the Engineers in a position to score more points at
Nationals. However, she fell out of competitiveness after 800 meters finishing
with a 10:18.06.

The final event for the women was the 4x400 Relay. Kayla Harris '15 led off
with a 59.0 that would have probably been a bit better had it not been for
getting bumped going into the final turn. Annie Dai '18 ran a strong 59.9 and
Sam Fierro '18 ran 60.5. Hannah Chen, despite a very poor handoff ran 57.3 to
give MIT a 3:56.81 season best.

The women totaled 43 points to finish in eighth place overall and the first
Division III team.

The men started off day two with the Mile Run. Colin Godwin '17 ran a very
competitive race, splitting 64, 2:06 and 3:09 before finishing strong in
4:11.15 to place seventh. There was hesitation on his part that kept him from
moving with three laps to go that probably would have given him the time he
needed to qualify for the NCAA Division III Championship. Nick O'Connell raced
when he probably should not have given his cold, and it showed as he faded at
the end, finishing in 4:22.56

Next up was States Lee in the 400. Racing in the slow section of the two
section final, Lee ran a nearly perfect race, splitting 22.6 en route to yet
another MIT record of 48.16 in winning his section. The fast section was not
so fast as only one individual beat Lee's time, earning him second place.

Ken Cooper had a great day in the Shot Put and his best mark of the season. He
was leading until the end of the competition when he was passed by one
thrower, giving him second place at 55-1.

Dan Kilcoyne also ran a near flawless race, moving up well in the field and
managing to have a pretty good kick as he finished sixth in 2:29.74.

The Triple Jump did not bring such great results as none of the MIT jumpers
produced their best. Arinze Okeke '17 jumped 45-1 1/2, Carrington Motley '16
finished with a 44-9 3/4 effort and Billy Ruschel '18 managed 44-3 1/2.

Matt Deyo '16 was hoping for a fast pace in the 3K, but that was not to be.
Ideally the leaders would be running 66-67 pace per quarter, but instead the
pace was pedestrian, hitting the 1600 in 4:35. The pace did not pick up until
600 meters to go. Deyo is more of a distance runner, coming down in distance
for this race, and was only able to finish in 1:34 for a new personal best of
8:26.56, garnering fifth place.

The final event was the 4x400. Replacing Cacopardo with Parker due to the
former's hamstring problem, MIT was hoping to improve on their 3:16.12 from
earlier in the season. Lee led off, doing a magnificent job of handling the
break and cut-in, which was full of contact. Lee came out unscathed for the
most part although the contact certainly slowed him down. Nevertheless he
handed off in second in 48.4. Barnes took the baton and passed on the first
backstretch to take the lead. On the second lap he was passed, falling into a
tie for second at the handoff to Sam Parker in 49.0. Parker was torched in the
first lap, fading to a distant fourth, but what the 800 runner lacks in pure
speed he made up for in endurance as he moved into third and very close to
second at the handoff in 49.5. Michael Kaba stayed close throughout his leg,
and never allowed the teams behind to pass. His 48.3 brought MIT a third place
in 3:15.20, the fastest time this season and the fifth fastest time in
Division III. The men totaled 41 points, good for fifth place overall.

Next weekend is the final opportunity to qualify for Nationals. Some MIT men
will compete at the IC4A Championship at Boston University on Saturday while
the women and the other men will compete at the Tufts Last Chance Qualifier
held on Friday.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Men and Women Lead the Way at the BU John Thomas Terrier Invite With National
Level Performances

January 30-31, 2015

MIT took 12 women to the John Thomas Terrier Invitational at Boston University
on Friday and came away with three NCAA Division III leading performances and
another seven top 15 performances despite the significant penalty applied by
the NCAA for banked track performances.

MIT split their squad this weekend, sending the majority of their team to
Tufts University for the Tufts Stampede on Saturday. A few top individuals
competed at Boston University with the women going on Friday and the men on
Saturday.

The banked track at Boston University is certainly one of the fastest ovals in
the country. The NCAA indexed banked and oversized tracks (over 200 meters)
two years ago. The penalty can be quite severe, as much as eight seconds in
the 5K, but even at 400 meters the penalty is .77 seconds. The penalty is the
same whether the track is banked a minimal amount or significantly so. Many
teams feel the penalty is too great and choose to race on flat tracks. With
the advantage of having such a fantastic facility right across the river, the
Engineers took advantage of the situation, which also includes significantly
better competition as both open and top level Division I athletes come to this
meet to secure faster times.

The first race for MIT was the 800. Cindy Huang '15, just off a foot injury
that had sidelined her since early November, wasted no time in getting back on
the horse. Running a very intelligent race, Huang hit the 400 in 67.7. She
moved up well in the second quarter, finishing in 2:16.08, less than two
seconds off her PR. Liz Cox '18 let her inexperience show as she reacted to
every move by the other runners, went out too fast (31.8) and used too much
energy doing so. Her quarter split was 66.0 and then she faded and lost focus,
but still managed a season best of 2:22.78.

In the 400, Hannah Chen '18 ran the 400 for the first time this year. Assigned
lane six on the six lane track, Chen was possibly too relaxed through the
first 150. As she saw others make up the stagger she surged and cut-in in
second position very smoothly, hitting the 200 split in 26.6. She finished
well even though she had little left, earning a 57.39. This time puts her
seventh on the NCAA list despite the penalty. Annie Dai '18 ran 62.07 while
Kendra Knittel '17 posted a 63.48 performance.

Sarah Quinn '16, who can certainly be one of the top runners in the country,
also tends to use too much energy early in races with competitive fields,
leaving nothing at the end. This was the case in the Mile this day. Pressing
too hard to run fast she hit splits of 71, 2:22 and 3:33, but then tightened
up significantly to finish in 4:53.53. This is still the fastest time in the
country for Division III so far, but she is easily capable of 4:45 or better.

Back on the track for the 200, Chen ran an impressive 25.84, which is 15th on
the NCAA list. Knittel fared a little better in the one lapper, running 26.98.
Dai ran 27.25.

MIT only brought two field event athletes to the meet, but they certainly got
the job done. Ellen Liverpool '15 threw a PR on her first throw in the 20 lb.
Weight Throw, and then another personal best on the second throw in the
trials. Even though she had another very good throw in the finals, her 54-5
1/2 performance in the trials was her best, earning fourth place overall. This
mark moves Liverpool up to seventh on the NCAA list

Cimmy Virdi '16 used the competition to let her best performance of the season
come out. Coming in at 12-1, clearing on the first attempt, Virdi went on to
clear 12-5 on her second attempt and 12-9 1/2 on her third attempt. She had
one very good attempt at 13-1 1/2, but failed to clear it. Virdi's second
place finish has her ranked number one in NCAA Division III.

With only the distance events remaining, Maryann Gong '17 and Christina Wicker
'17 were preparing the the 3000. Already checked-in, finishing her warm-up,
but not paying close attention to things, Gong, who was in the first and
fastest section, did not realize the race was about to go off early. Once the
race started she sprinted over, tried to catch up, running about 350 meters
before the starter stopped her and told she could run the next section. She
calmed down, recovered from her sub 70 400 and joined Wicker in the second
section. The plan was to come through the 1600 in 5:04, and while the splits
were not very even (first 200 in 33), Gong hit 5:04 exactly. Wicker,
mistakenly trying to slow down from the early fast pace, was only one second
off her race plan, hitting the 1600 in 5:13, but she was now in a slower group
and had lost much of her competitiveness. Gong began to fade, but not much,
running the next 1200 in 3:52 or 77 per 400. Her finish was strong, getting
her to the line in 9:33.49, a new MIT record, easily the top time in the
country and the fourth fastest time in NCAA Division III history. Wicker
finished pretty well, running 9:55.83 in her first ever 3000, but she knows
there is a lot more there.

In the 5K, Nicole Zeinstra '16 and Elaine McVay '15 were out to improve their
national marks and hopefully qualify for the NCAA Division III Championship.
The plan was to run 82 second quarters en route to a 17:05 or so. They were
both in the fast section and the pace was fast. The front group, which
Zeinstra had joined was hitting 79-80 pace through the first mile, running
5:17 at the 1600. McVay settled in the back, which was still fast as they were
running 81 second pace, hitting the 1600 in 5:23. Zeinstra continued to race
well, running the second 1600 in the planned pace of 5:27 for a 10:44 total.
McVay, for whatever reason did not have her signature focus, running a 5:34
second 1600. Zeinstra thought she was more fatigued than she was as she slowed
to a 5:38 third 1600 before finishing in 38 for a 17:00.97 huge personal best
and the second fastest time in NCAA Division III. She is second only the
teammate Sarah Quinn. McVay continued to lose time, but finishing in a
respectable 17:22.26

The men took to the track on day two. As with the women the men's first event
was the 800. Sam Parker '15 was up first for Tech. Parker ran with a lot of
confidence, sitting in the back, letting others run too fast in the early
stages of the race. He ran 27.1 and 55.5 for the first two laps. He made one
error trying to pass on the inside and then successfully passed three on the
inside to move up towards the leaders. His final two laps were 1:23.4 at the
600, and then finishing in 1:51.98 for a new personal best and a mark that
should put him among the top six currently on the national list. Rick Paez '15
ran relaxed, too relaxed. He stayed in the back too long, moving up a lot in
the third lap, but used too much energy doing so, finishing in 1:56.82.

The 400 was next and MIT was hoping for big things from their All America
4x400 members. States Lee '16 stepped out of his early season funk,
demonstrating the reason he is one of the best 400 runners in the country for
Division III. His 48.72 is less than four tenths off his MIT record, and a
mark that may make the NCAA Championship. Luca Cacopardo '18 ran 49.82, but he
was over striding the entire time, losing a lot of energy and time in the
process. Derek Barnes '16 ran an excellent race, getting out in 23.0 and
finishing in 49.93. Michael Kaba '16 got out a little slow (22.9), but then
lost his competitiveness early in the second lap as he was in a very fast heat
and got discouraged when he was so far down going into the second lap. Chris
Sweeney '18 made a mistake cutting in, getting caught on the inside and having
to slow his pace in order not to trip. Nevertheless he finished with a fine
51.37.

Parker returned to the track in the 500 and set a personal best in that race.
It was an excellently run race. He ran about as even as possible, splitting
25.9, 51.7, and finishing in 1:04.83.

The 400 runners returned to the track in the 200 with some impressive results.
Michael Kaba drew lane six and took advantage of it, running a personal best
of 22.04. Cacopardo set a new MIT freshman record with his 22.13, where he
demonstrated much better mechanics from start to finish. States Lee was given
lane two, a huge disadvantage, but still ran an indoor personal best of 22.59.
Tre Albritten '18 also drew lane two and very similarly, ran 22.60. Barnes ran
22.99. Sweeney pulled his hamstring on the final turn and shut down.

The next to last event for MIT was the 1000. Dan Kilcoyne '16, still coming
back from an injury, is still getting in race shape. However, watching the
race, it seemed he is ready to go. The pace was a little quick for the first
lap in 27.9, but it then settled down. His 2:29.35 is an excellent performance
and there is obviously more there as he gets in better race shape.

The final and perhaps best event for the men was the 5K featuring Benji Xie
'15. Xie went out with the goal of hitting 70's. The pace was a little slow by
the leaders at first, but generally worked out to be about perfect for Xie.
The first 1600 was 4:42 and the second a 4:40 for a 9:22 3200. Xie looked
comfortable as it came down to just him and one other runner at the front.
With 600 to go, Xie took the lead running 33 200's the rest of the way.
Although he was passed in the final 400 he ran a personal best 14:30.08, the
number two all-time performance by an MIT runner.

Next week MIT will again split their team between the two invitationals held
by Boston University (Scarlet and White Invite) and Tufts (Cupid Challenge).

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Relays Shine at BU and Tufts Meets

February 7, 2015

Entering the next to last weekend to qualify for the New England Division III
Championship (NED3) the MIT Track & Field teams went about their business of
getting ready for four consecutive weeks of Championships. While some distance
runners took the weekend off from competing, the women's team competed at the
Tufts Cupid Challenge while the men's team split, sending most of their top
runners to Boston University for the Scarlet and White Invitational, and the
remainder of those competing to Tufts.

While the focus for those competing was to win their competitions, there was
extra incentive to do well as the focus moves to the championships. Some were
looking to qualify or improve their qualifying marks for Nationals, while
others were trying to either qualify for the New England Division III
Championships or improve their performance to get into the faster sections in
the running events.

The women began things with the Distance Medley Relay (DMR) at Tufts. The
intent was to run in the 11:40's but the total lack of competition was going
to be a concern. The flat track and the fact there were only two other teams,
both of which MIT would lap once with a poor race and twice with a great race,
meant MIT was going to be challenged. Christina Wicker '17 was trying to run
as close to 3:30 as possible in the 1200, Hannah Chen '18 would run the 400
leg and hope for a 58, Cindy Huang '15 was looking for a 2:15 or so in the 800
and Maryann Gong '17 wanted to anchor the 1600 leg with a 4:50. Whether it was
the lack of competition or being too excited and going out too fast, three of
the four just could not get it done at the level they were hoping for. Wicker
went out too fast with a 32 first 200 so that by the 600 she was already
running 37 seconds for the third 200. She competed well but paid for the early
error, finishing with a 3:40 leg. Chen delivered with a 58.1 split, but Huang
made the same error as Wicker, going out in 32. She was on at 67 for the 400,
but her 36 third 200 and 38 final lap brought her in at 2:21 and far off her
expected time. Gong went out in 33 as opposed to the 36 she was hoping for,
and while she managed pretty well through the 800 at 2:24, she fell to a 2:35
final 800 for a 4:59 1600. The overall time of 12:01.08 is the leading time in
the country for DIII for now but is not likely to hold up. The quartet will
have to run it again in a few weeks when they can face some favorable
competition.

Haley Strouf '18, making a try at qualifying for the NED3 Pentathlon, had an
exceptional day in her five events. She started off with a personal best in
the 60HH, running a 10.33. She also had personal best in three other events, a
4-7 3/4 in the High Jump, a throw of 31-6 1/2 in the Shot Put and a 2:59.59
800. She jumped a solid 16-3 in the Long Jump to total 2605 points to qualify
for the NED3 Championship.

Veronica Szklarzewski '15 had a big day, running a season best 7.96 in the 60
Meter Dash for third place, tying her personal best. Later in the meet, she
ran a 26.68 200 to place third in that event. She also took third place honors
in the Long Jump at 16-3 3/4.

Kayla Harris '15 is quickly rounding into shape as she comes back from four
years of dealing with a knee injury. Her 60.94 400 is a collegiate best,
providing much needed support in that area. Harris came back with a 26.96 200.

Elaine McVay '15 ran a personal best in the 3K as she led from start to finish
in 10:04.66. Four other victories were turned in by Tech athletes. Ellen
Liverpool '15 delivered in the Weight Throw at 53-6 1/4. Huang came back after
the DMR and ran an excellent personal best of 1:38.48 to win the 600. Her
performance was the third fastest all-time by an MIT runner. Isabella Stuopis
'16 earned first place honors with a 40-7 3/4 put in the Shot. Last but not
least, Cimmy Virdi '16 scored a victory in the Pole Vault with an 11-11 3/4
effort.

The highlights of the Engineers' field event dominance were the Weight Throw
and Pole Vault. Ashley Wheeler '15 and Jackie Vahey '17 threw PR's of 50-1 1/4
and 49-9 3/4 respectively to join Liverpool for a 1-2-3 sweep. Joining Virdi
were Abby Klein '15 in second at 11-5 3/4, Maeve Devlin '18 in fifth at 10-6
and Joanna Chen '15 in sixth at 10-6.

The men making the trip to BU represented their team well. As with the women,
the men were hoping to come away with an NCAA Division III leading relay time,
this one in the 4x400. The quartet of States Lee '16, Derek Barnes '16,
Michael Kaba '16 and Luca Cacopardo '18 were hoping to break 3:15 in the first
effort of the year. All would be running the open 400 prior to the relay, but
that has never stopped the juniors on the team who have been three time All
America winners in the relay in one indoor and two outdoor NCAA Championships.
Lee led off, made a strategic error on the backstretch, but finished well with
a 48.4 leg. Barnes had a much better handoff than usual, ran a strong first
200, but faded in the final 100 to close in 49.4. Kaba produced perhaps his
best leg ever, catching up to the leaders, putting MIT in third with a 48.3
leg. Cacopardo, lacking confidence because of a disappointing open 400, got
out slowly and never quite displayed the intensity he has shown prior to this
weekend. He did however run the best he could with the mental attitude he had
going into the race, anchoring a 49.8 to give Tech a 3:16.12, good for the
second fastest time in Division III. Similar to the women the men will have to
put in a better performance over the next few weeks.

Kaba began the day with a season best of 8.49 in the 60HH. He followed that up
with a 49.00 personal best in the 400 before his excellent relay leg. Lee ran
a season best of 48.62 in the open 400, and if he had not been pushed out to
lane two at the break and then had his heel clipped entering the final turn,
he would have probably bettered his MIT record of 48.36. Barnes ran a personal
indoor best of 49.18 in the open race.

The Mile went very well for MIT as all four runners produced indoor personal
bests. Colin Godwin '17 came away with the top time for MIT on this day,
running 64 second quarters all the way for a 4:16.30. Nick O'Connell '18
showed his talents as he closed in a 61 to run 4:16.48 in his section of the
Mile. Benji Xie '15 dropped down from the 5K to run 4:17. 49. Matt Deyo '16,
leading most of the race, used too much energy doing so, but still managed a
4:17.77.

Sam Parker '15 ran a personal best in the 800, running 27.5 200's through 600
meters for a 1:22.5 and then finishing in 29 for a 1:51.66, good for third on
the NCAA Division III ranking.

Back at Tufts, minus so many of the top runners, MIT only claimed three
victories. Ken Cooper '15 earned his customary two wins, earning first place
honors in both the Weight Throw and the Shot Put. Cooper threw 55-10 1/2 and
49-7 respectively.

Arinze Okeke '17 took the other victory, jumping 46-7 1/4 in the Triple Jump.
Okeke led his teammates to a 1-3-4-6 finish as Billy Ruschel '18 (44-5 1/4),
Carrington Motley '16 (44-2 1/2) and Ryan Prinster '18 (42-6) competed in the
final event of the day.

Two of the distance runners competing, both freshmen, showed the biggest
improvement on the day. Cooper Sloan earned second place in the 5K with a
personal best of 15:12.56. David Walter moved up in distance to tackle the 3K
and did so admirably. His 8:50.62 is a personal best and took third place in
the event.

The only other performance of significance was in the 400 where Danny Newman
'17 won his section with a flat track indoor personal best of 52.40.

Next week, the final weekend to qualify for the championships, many of the
oval runners will be at Boston University for the David Hemery Valentine's
Classic while the majority of the field event athletes with be competing at
the MIT Gordon Kelly Invitational.



RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Triple Jumpers Lead MIT at Tufts Last Chance Qualifier

March 6, 2015

A handful of MIT's track & field athletes traveled the four miles to Tufts
University for the Tufts Last Chance Qualifier\--on this the final weekend to
get in a mark for the NCAA Division III Indoor Track & Field Championship.

MIT athletes earned three significant improvements while winning six events
with only 17 athletes. The biggest improvement was by Arinze Okeke '17 who put
in a 13" PR in the Triple Jump to win in 47-11 3/4 and move up to eighth on
the NCAA list. Teammate Carrington Motley '16 placed second in 45-0 1/4.

In the women's Triple Jump, Michelle Johnson '15 won the event with a new MIT
record in 37-10. This mark moved her up to the magical 17th position on the
NCAA list as only 17 make the Nationals field. Time will tell if her mark
holds up through tomorrow's meets.

Cimmy Virdi '16 won the Pole Vault with her opening height and proceeded to
set a new indoor PR with a 13-01 3/4 performance. This moves her back into the
number one positiion on the NCAA list. Also in the Pole Vault Maeve Devlin '18
was second at 11-2 1/4, Jen Tylock '17 was third, also at 11-2 1/4, and Joanna
Chen '15 was fifth at 10-8 1/4.

Ellen Liverpool '15 won the Weight Throw with a throw of 52-10 3/4. Isabella
Stuopis '16 won the Shot Put with a toss of 42-9 1/2. Preethi Vaidyanathan '15
won the High Jump at 5-4 1/2 while Natalie Alper placed fourth at 5-0 1/2.
Veronica Szklarzewski '15 placed second in the Long Jump at 16-8 3/4.

The only runner representing MIT was Hannah Chen '18 in the 400. She pressed a
bit too hard in the first 200, was forced twice to break stride as was about
to pass going into turns three and four, finishing in 58.71.

In the men's 800, Dan Kilcoyne '16 placed sixth in 1:56.12, a season best.
Rick Paez '15 ran 1:57.78.

Tomorrow a few men will be competing at the IC4A Championship to try their
hands, or rather feet at improving their NCAA rank.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

MIT Prepares For Championships With Personal Bests

February 13-14, 2015

The only goal facing the Engineers at the Boston University David Hemery
Valentine's Invitational and MIT's Gordon Kelly Invitational were to better
position themselves for the upcoming championships. At the conclusion of both
meets the men's and women's teams were very successful in their goal.

Day one at BU was the women's show with the exception of the men's DMR, which
was the first event of the day. The Engineers did not know if they had a
foursome that had the mental and physical ability to run a low 9:50, which is
approximately the banked track time (8+ second penalty) it will take to make
the 10 teams selected for the NCAA Division III Championship, but they wanted
to give it a try. They also needed to run a fast enough time to get into the
fast section for the New England Division III Championship next weekend. Sam
Parker '15 led Tech off with the 1200 leg. The pace was a little slow for the
standout middle-distance runner and this caused him to feel dead in the legs.
He was unable to correct the pace and slid back to an uncharacteristic 3:06.2
States Lee '16 took care of business with an outstanding 47.6 leg. Rick Paez
'15 had 800 duty and he did his job well. Going out aggressively with a 55
first quarter, Paez continued to race his way towards the front, running
1:54.0. Colin Godwin '17, the least confident of the four, went out to get the
job done, running 60 for the first quarter and 2:03 for the 800. At that point
he slowed to a 66 as he gave into his fears. He snapped back to close in 62
and a 4:11 overall 1600 to lead MIT to a season best 9:59.86. One objective
was certainly accomplished and now the Engineers know they have a strong shot
at making the top 10 teams if they all run their best.

The women started the meet in fine fashion. Kayla Harris '15 ran her first 400
at BU, clocking a 59.23. Sam Fierro '18, running her first race of the year as
she returns from injury, faired very well, running 61.90.

In the 800, Cindy Huang '15 continued her comeback from a foot injury, running
a very well paced race. She came from dead last, and perhaps finished with too
much left as she was passing runners all the way to the finish in 2:14.00.
Maryann Gong '17 came down from her distance running events to try her hand at
the 800. She went out a little quick, running a 32 first 200, but managed
things well. She took the lead at 300 to go when she probably could have done
so at the 400. Finishing with much too much left in 2:14.78, a huge personal
best.

In the 200, Hannah Chen '18, despite running 9.37 in the 60HH earlier and
drawing the disadvantage of lane three, ran a PR of 25.75. Kendra Knittel '17
found her groove and ran a personal best of her own, touring the oval in
25.82. Harris returned to the track and ran 26.39 for her best this season.
Annie Dai '18 closed out the event for MIT, running a season best 27.15.

Christina Wicker '17 ended up in the lead in the 1000, although she certainly
did not want that position. She went out too fast, running 32.5 for the first
lap, so naturally no one wanted to take the lead at that point. Running 36-37
for the next three laps, others eventually moved up to challenge her. Wicker
did not hold the lead but did fight back to finish in 2:56.28. Liz Cox '18 ran
a near perfect race, moving up gradually throughout the race, eventually
taking the lead, finishing with a 34 final 200 to win in 2:58.85.

The final event of day one for MIT was the 4x400 Relay. Both Harris and Huang
felt running the relay would risk further injury so Knittel and Dai replaced
them, joining Gong and Chen to see if they could get under 4:00 and move into
the fast section in next week's championship. Knittel, continuing with her
impressive day, opened up with a fine run of 60.3. Dai, not feeling her best,
still ran 60.2 to put their team in good position. Gong competed very well,
running 61.3, an excellent leg for a distance runner. Chen did her thing,
catching people and running away with the victory as she anchored a 57.2,
giving MIT a 3:59.05.

Day two was for the men and started with the 60HH. Michael Kaba '16, nursing
an achilles problem, managed an 8.60, just off his best for the season.

Henry Tareque '17 was the first oval runner for MIT. He had been running the
600, but was moving up to the 800 to see if he would be a good relay runner in
the upcoming championship. Tareque got out well and competed well throughout
the race, dying off a little in the final lap to finish in 2:00.11

Derek Barnes '16 and Danny Newman '17 represented MIT in 400. Barnes hit the
200 in 22.9 and looked great. His final lap he tried to do more than his body
wanted, which tightened him up a bit. Nevertheless he finished with a new
indoor best of 49.10. Newman went out much slower, thinking instead of
running, hitting the 200 in 24.00. He competed well in the final lap,
finishing in a personal best 50.93.

MIT had four entries in the 1000. In the best to slowest format, Dan Kilcoyne
'16 was up first. Kilcoyne got out fast, but when he went out in 28 and was
not moving up to the two leaders he got a little discouraged and backed off,
probably too much. He stayed competitive, moving up well in the final lap to
finish in a personal best 2:28.74. In the next section, both Godwin and Paez
returned from the DMR the day before. Both were towards the front and both
split a 2:00.5 at the 800 as they were tied for first going into the final
lap. Godwin closed well to win, but Paez tightened up and slowed. Godwin's
time was 2:29.87 and Paez ran 2:31.86. Michael Picchini '18 went out a little
fast in his section at 28 for the first 200 and pretty much slowed from there,
finishing in 2:34.42.

The final individual event for the Engineers was the 200. States Lee produced
the best time for the Engineers, running 22.09 out of lane five, a big indoor
personal best for the junior. Kaba drew lane three in the same section,
running 22.11. He had run 22.04 two weeks earlier, but had the advantage of
lane six in that race. Luca Cacopardo '18 had an equally solid race, running
one hundredth off his best at 22.14. Tre Albritten '18 ran a nice PR, clocking
22.38.

The last event, the 4x400, featured Lee leading off, Barnes running second,
Parker in for Kaba, whose achilles was too tender to take a risk, and
Cacopardo anchoring. Lee continued his outstanding weekend, leading off with a
perfectly run 47.9 and a very well executed handoff to Barnes in first place.
Barnes went out a bit slow in 23.1 and by the 300 mark was in fourth place.
This pushed Parker to lane four for the exchange. Parker did not get out well
at all causing the exchange to be too close to his body and he missed it twice
before grabbing it 10 meters after the initial attempt. This gave Barnes a
49.8 split that was actually more like mid 48. The exchange by itself cost MIT
around 15 meters. Parker ran a strong 49.7 leg, but the damage was done.
Cacopardo had no one to race, but still ran 49.9 to bring the baton home in
3:17.32.

Next week the men will be at Springfield College to defend their New England
Division III crown. The women will be at Smith College trying to break five
consecutive years of finishing second in the New England Division III
Championship.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



