


|

![](../titleitf.gif)  
  
---  
  
Cross Country

  * Schedule and Results
  * Roster                   
  * Coaches                   
  * Course Maps
  * Records/Past Seasons

Indoor Track & Field  
 Schedule & Results  
 Roster  
 Coaches  
 Qualifying Standards  
 Records/Past Seasons

Outdoor Track & Field

  * Schedule and Results
  * Roster                   
  * Coaches                   
  * Qualifying Standards
  * Records/Past Seasons

  
  
Recruit Info  
Facilities  
Conference Affiliations  
Other Resources  
Alumni Info

Home  
Contact  
MIT Athletics  
MIT



|

Men and Women Claim Alumni Meet Victories

January 10, 2009

MIT began the season with victories over their more aged ex-team members, with
the women claiming a 83-39 lopsided win and the men edging the "Has Beens"
70-52 in the annual Alumni Meet.

Prior to the start of the meet, Donald Morrison '61, was honored with a
dedication for his and his wife Sherie's generous gift of a second long jump /
triple jump pit that will allow for much more time efficient meets, allowing
the student-athletes to spend more time on the real reason they came to MIT,
their academics.

On the women's side for the alums, Princess Imoukhuede '02, claimed two
victories, throwing 50-3 1/4 in the weight throw and 36-7 1/2 in the shot put.
Cat Tweedie '04, won the pole vault on misses with a vault of 10-6.

In the horizontal jumps, Meredith Silberstein '05 and Chinwe Nyenke '04 won
the long jump and triple jump respectively with jumps of 15-0 3/4 and 33-11
1/2.

The alums were not able to claim any victories in the running events as the
varsity showed their strength. Amy Magnuson '10 claimed a victory in the 55HH
with a time of 8.50, and backed that up with an excellent 7.71 for second
place in the 55 dash and another second in the high jump at 4-9 3/4.

Portia Jones '12, had an excellent first meet, taking two victories, a
freshman record in the 200 in 27.50 and a 4-11 3/4 jump off in the high jump.
She also anchored the victorious 4x200 in 27.5 and took a second in the 55HH
with an 8.82.

Margaret Leibovic '10, won the 55 dash in 7.70, took second in the 200 in
27.57 and led off the successful 4x200 in 27.7.

Other victories were earned by Margaret Gross '12, in the 400 in 64.24, Andrea
Bradshaw '09, in the 800 in 2:22.85, Katherine Eve '12, in the mile with a
time of 5:18.75 and Maggie Lloyd '12, in the 5000 with a personal best of
19:12.88.

On the men's side of the ledger, the alums were led by Uzoma Orji '06, who
dominated in the weight throw and shot put with victorious throws of 60-4 1/2
and 53-2 1/4 respectively.

Nate Ball '05, jumped 14-11 to take the pole vault, Craig Mielcarz '03, easily
won the high jump at 6-2, Omari Stephens '08, claimed the 55HH in 8.18 and Ben
Schmeckpeper '05, ran away with the 5000 in 15:23.01.

Stephen Morton '10, led the way for the varsity with four victories, one of
them a personal best. Morton began his day with a 22-9 long jump, topped than
with a PR of 6.54 in the 55 dash, came back in the 200 with a 22.93 and
finished his day with a 45-0 1/2 triple jump victory for a total of 20 points.

Also claiming victories for the varsity were John Granata '11, in the 400 with
a time of 52.99, Bill Phipps '10, in the 800 in 1:58.27, Yermie Cohen '09, in
the mile with a negative split 4:27.43 and the 4x200 team of Matt Bieniosek
'09, Granata, Nick Leonard '11 and Phipps, winning in 1:36.74.

Also representing the alums in the meet were Karen Davie '08, Chi-Fong Wang
'07, Sarah Rich '08, Leanne Veldhuis '08, Alisha Schor '07, Adeline Kuo '02
and Julia Espel '05 for the women and Kevin Scannell '91, Thad Wozniak '06,
Anthony Teixeira '08, Chris Bateman '07, Dan Kwon '02, Bill Singhose '90, Ravi
Sastry '99, Ned Rich '72, Patrick Barragan '08, Craig Wildman '03, Chris Wong
'08, Matt Lehman '03, David Blau '06, Akin Aina '95, Eric Khatchadourian '06,
Peter Mulligan '08, Mike Lyons '85, Brian Jacokes '08, Joe Roy-Mayhew '08, Ian
Driver '05, Bob Collins '82 and Don Shobrys '75. Many others were in
attendance to cheer on their teammates.

Next week, the Engineers travel north to Lewiston, ME, home of the Bates
Bobcats where they will go up against Bates and visiting Colby College.

RETURN TO INDOOR  
  
  |  
  



|

![](../titleitf.gif)  
  
---  
  
Cross Country

  * Schedule and Results
  * Roster                   
  * Coaches                   
  * Course Maps
  * Records/Past Seasons

Indoor Track & Field  
 Schedule & Results  
 Roster  
 Coaches  
 Qualifying Standards  
 Records/Past Seasons

Outdoor Track & Field

  * Schedule and Results
  * Roster                   
  * Coaches                   
  * Qualifying Standards
  * Records/Past Seasons

  
  
Recruit Info  
Facilities  
Conference Affiliations  
Other Resources  
Alumni Info

Home  
Contact  
MIT Athletics  
MIT



|

Men and Women Remain Undefeated With Wins Over Bates and Colby

January 17, 2009

On Saturday, MIT traveled to Lewiston, Maine, home of the Bates Bearcats to
face Bates and Colby in their first intercollegiate meet of the year on the
newly renovated track. The Engineer's men and women were favored to win the
tri-meet and they did not disappoint with the men claiming the victory with
204 points to 128 for Bates and 21 for Colby, while the women earned theirs
with 151 points to 123 for Bates and 89 for Colby.

As always, the field events began first. The MIT women, with only 27
competing, displayed their dominance in the first two events, the pole vault
and high jump. The scoring for the three team meet awarded seven points for
first, five for second, four for third, three for fourth, two for fifth and
one for sixth. Emily Hwang '09, returned from her sprained ankle to earn first
place with a vault of 10-11 1/2. Karin Fisher '11, Hazel Briner '11, and Lynn
Jepsen '11, supported with second, third and fifth places to give MIT a
commanding early lead. Over in the high jump, Portia Jones '12, led the way
for MIT with a 5-0 1/4 second place effort and was helped by Briner and Amy
Magnuson earning third and fourth places. After the two events MIT had a lead
of 30 to 10 for Colby and 4 for Bates.

The running events resulted in a similar outcome with Jacqui Wentz '10,
winning the mile in the second fastest indoor time ever for MIT, a 5:10.01
effort. Alicia Kaestli '12, and Katherine Eve '12 placed third and fourth
respectively. On the infield straight, Magnuson and Jones went one-two in the
55HH, running 8.66 and 9.00.

MIT continued to pile up the victories and maintained their lead despite not
having a lot of depth in most events. Andrea Bradshaw '09, won the 600 going
away with a school record of 1:38.57. Wentz came back in the 1000 and again
ran to victory in the second fastest MIT time ever with a 2:59.94. Jones
earned her first victory of the day in the 200, winning comfortably in 27.62.
Anna Holt-Gosselin '11, dueled teammate Jennifer Doyle '09, for much of the
race, including a final sprint to win in 10:43.53 to Doyle's 10:43.65. The
final victory was in the 4x200 relay as Martha Gross '12, Briner, AJ Williams
'12, and Alex Manick '12, held on for a 1:56.11 win.

The men won 12 of the 16 events they entered and earned second place in nine
of the 15 individual events. Stephen Morton '10, led the way with four
victories for 28 points. Taking only three jumps in the long and triple,
Morton made the most of the opportunity, jumping 22-3 and 47-5 3/4 for a
strong NCAA provisional mark. On the track, Morton won both his specialties,
the 55 and 200 in 6.63 and 23.04, giving suspicion that the new Mondo surface
was a little slow due to its softness.

Morton was supported well in his events by Mattias Flander '11, in the long
and triple jumps with efforts of 21-0 and 44-7 as well as a 6.87 in the 55,
Nathan Peterson '12, in the 55 (6.86) and Kahlil Dozier '12, in the 200
(23.54).

Tony McDonald '10, had a nice day in the throws, tossing the weight 47-7 1/4
for second place and earning the victory in the shot with a performance of
44-6 3/4. With James Oleinik '09, out for the year with a torn labrum, the
young throwing unit (Adam Mustafa '11, Mitchell Kelley '11, Jared Darby '12,
CK Umachi '12) stepped up to also claim 3-5-6 in the weight throw and 2-3-4-6
in the shot put.

On the track, other victories were earned by Dave Reshef 'G, in the 400 with a
53.09, Bill Phipps '10, in the 600 with a 1:24.67, Matt Bieniosek '09, in the
800 in 2:00.69, Jake Ruzevick '09, in the 1000 in 2:36.52, Yermie Cohen '09,
in the 3000 with a 8:51.82 and the 4x400 with Reshef, Kevin Kleinguetl '11,
Steven Serene '12, and Phipps running 3:35.01.

In perhaps the most thrilling victory of the day, Greg Tao '10, battled Sam
Goldstein '12, from Bates in the pole vault. With both vaulters clearing
personal indoor bests of 14-8 3/4 on their third attempt, both had close
misses at 15-3. Neither vaulter cleared the height, giving Tao the victory
based on fewer total misses.

Next weekend, both teams will compete at the Boston University Terrier Classic
with the women competing on Friday and the men on Saturday.

RETURN TO INDOOR  
  
  |  
  



|

![](../titleitf.gif)  
  
---  
  
Cross Country

  * Schedule and Results
  * Roster                   
  * Coaches                   
  * Course Maps
  * Records/Past Seasons

Indoor Track & Field  
 Schedule & Results  
 Roster  
 Coaches  
 Qualifying Standards  
 Records/Past Seasons

Outdoor Track & Field

  * Schedule and Results
  * Roster                   
  * Coaches                   
  * Qualifying Standards
  * Records/Past Seasons

  
  
Recruit Info  
Facilities  
Conference Affiliations  
Other Resources  
Alumni Info

Home  
Contact  
MIT Athletics  
MIT



|

Cohen and Wentz Lead the Way for MIT in Bowdoin Meet

January 31, 2009

MIT traveled to Bowdoin College in Brunswick, Maine on Saturday to take on
Bowdoin and Colby on the women's side and Bowdoin, Colby, Springfield and
Tufts on the men's side. The women, led by Jacqui Wentz '10, with runaway
victories in the mile and 800, defeated Colby but fell to Bowdoin's depth. The
final scores for the women were Bowdoin 173.5, MIT 149 and Colby 73.5. The
men, led by Yermie Cohen's '09, two victories, in the mile and 1000, scored
181 points to defeat Bowdoin (155), Tufts (121), Springfield (89) and Colby
(3).

In the women's competition, it was the quality of MIT versus the quality and
depth of Bowdoin. MIT won seven of the 18 events, had 18 personal scoring
bests, one MIT varsity record and 14 new entries on the all time top ten lists
and top five relays marks. Bowdoin won nine events, but totally dominated in
depth, placing three or four individuals even when MIT would win the event.

Perhaps the most dominating performance in the women's meet was provided
courtesy of Andrea Bradshaw '09. Her wire to wire victory in the 600 was a
very well paced 1:36.87, the fastest time in New England Division III this
year.

Wentz's time in the mile was a negatively split 5:09.95, after coming through
the 800 in 2:38. Her 800 victory was a 2:18.45, making her the second fastest
indoor 800 runner in MIT history.

All America hurdler, Amy Magnuson '10, won her specialty in 8.56, but was
tentative due to a tight hamstring. However that did not seem to slow her down
in the long jump as she produced a 16-7 1/4 performance for second place.

Emily Hwang '09, led the Engineers in a 1-3-4-5 effort in the pole vault,
winning the event with a 10-11 1/2 vault. Karin Fisher '11, placed second with
a 10-5 1/2 vault despite tweaking her leg when she came down off the pit early
in the competition. Hazel Briner '11, placed fourth with a 9-11 1/2, coming
after a career day with a PR in the 55HH in 9.14, a 4-10 personal best in the
high jump, a 30-7 shot put and a 2:30.77 800 PR. Briner was trying to score
enough points in the varied events to be able to qualify for the pentathlon at
the New England Division III Championship.

MIT took both of the relays they entered, the 4x200 and the 4x400. The final
event, the distance medley relay was held after the outcome of the meet was
decided so MIT decided not to waste the bodies. Portia Jones '12, Bradshaw,
Martha Gross '12 and Margaret Leibovic '10, sprinted their way to a 1:49.18
performance for the second fastest time in MIT history. Gross and Bradshaw
came back with Kirsten Aarsvold '11, and Wentz as the anchor in the 4x400 to
win in 4:10.34, the fifth fastest time in the MIT record books. Jones also had
a very successful day even though she did not claim any individual victories.
She hurdled her way to a 8.73 personal best for second place to Magnuson in
the 55HH and then ran a flat track PR of 26.94 for second place in the 200.
She also jumped a best of 15-9 in the long jump for fourth place and 4-10 in
the high jump for third place.

Even though they did not win either of their events, the distance runners
raced extremely well. In the 3000, Anna Holt-Gosselin '11, ran a superb
10:20.48 for second place and the second fastest time ever for MIT. She was
supported by freshman Maggie Lloyd, who ran a 10:35.39, good enough for third
place and the eighth fastest time in MIT history. In the 5000, Elizabeth Finn
'09, continued her comeback, running 18:23.85 with a 38 second final 200 for
second place. Tania Morimoto '12, ran an incredibly courageous race, pulling
away just after the halfway point, which was outside her comfort zone. Even
though she was caught in the final 400, she ran a huge personal best of
18:30.87, good for eighth on the all-time MIT list.

In the men's meet, Yermie Cohen took no prisoners in his race, taking the lead
early in the second half of the mile, running a 61 final 400 to hold off a
strong charge by a Bowdoin runner, en route to a 4:18.16. In the 1000, Cohen
followed the exceptionally fast field and then unleashed a vicious kick to run
2:31.67 in the 1000 victory.

Bowdoin College presented a big challenge to the Engineer's undefeated record,
leading the meet through the first half of the day and staying too close for
comfort until the 5000 and pole vault, which were dominating events for the
Engineers. MIT won eight of the 18 events in the five team meet but also
provided the necessary depth to outscore their opponents.

Stephen Morton '10, was on the way to a career day but fouled out in the long
jump. His 6.51 for second place in the 55 dash was a personal best and the
second fastest on the MIT all-time list. He jumped 47-2 1/2 for the victory in
the triple jump and ran 22.75 in the 200 for the win. Each of his three long
jump attempts were fouls by less than two inches and all were over an
estimated 23'. This was the first day Morton used a full approach and his
speed was a bit erratic as well as a little reaching at the takeoff.

Even though Morton faltered in the long jump, Mattias Flander '11, stepped up
and jumped 21-9 for the victory. Flander also supplied a 44-6 triple jump
performance for second place in that event.

Hemu Arumugam '10, led the way in the 5000 with a 15:32.75 uncontested
victory. Dan Harper, taking it easy after last week's 15:16 5K, just held on
for second place in 15:45.81.

Greg Tao '10, led the vaulters to a 1-4-5-6 finish in the pole vault. Tao tied
his season best of 14-9 and had a great attempt at 15-3. Supporting Tao were
Travis Hery '11 (13-3 1/2), Cyrus Vafadari '12 (13-3 1/2) and Davey Hunt '12
(12-9 1/2).

Matt Bieniosek '09, led the Engineers to a victory in the 4x400, leading off
with a 51.9 as MIT ran 3:28.17. Bieniosek also ran a personal best of 1:23.91
to place third in the 600.

They did not win their event, but the MIT crew of weight throwers had a great
day. Tony McDonald '10, placed third with a 49-3 3/4 and he was backed up by
big PRs from Adam Mustafa '11 (49-1 3/4) and Jared Darby '12 (46-6 3/4) for
fourth and sixth place respectively.

Next week, MIT is at home versus Coast Guard and Williams, which promises to
be a war on the track and in the field. The meet starts at noon.

RETURN TO INDOOR  
  
  |  
  



|

![](../titleitf.gif)  
  
---  
  
Cross Country

  * Schedule and Results
  * Roster                   
  * Coaches                   
  * Course Maps
  * Records/Past Seasons

Indoor Track & Field  
 Schedule & Results  
 Roster  
 Coaches  
 Qualifying Standards  
 Records/Past Seasons

Outdoor Track & Field

  * Schedule and Results
  * Roster                   
  * Coaches                   
  * Qualifying Standards
  * Records/Past Seasons

  
  
Recruit Info  
Facilities  
Conference Affiliations  
Other Resources  
Alumni Info

Home  
Contact  
MIT Athletics  
MIT



|

**Women and Men Continue to Set NCAA Qualifying Marks**

March 6-7, 2009

MIT's Women's and Men's Indoor Track and Field teams continued their record
setting ways. The women led the way with two new varsity records and four new
or improved NCAA Division III qualifying performances. The men added one new
PR and improved NCAA qualifying mark.

Although this is a scored championship, MIT only sends those who have a chance
of qualifying for nationals, preferring to have the others begin to work on
their outdoor track skills since it is such a short season.

On day one of the ECAC Division III Championship, hosted by Tufts University,
Amy Magnuson '10 and Portia Jones '12, got things started with the 55HH
trials. Jones led off, winning her heat with a 8.47 and then Magnuson hurdled
her way to a season best 8.30 to win her heat.

The men's triple jump was going on at the same time, which Stephen Morton '10,
was hoping to win and improve his season best mark and third best jump in the
country for Division III. However, he was not consistent in his approach and
was only able to manage a 46' effort for fourth place.

Emily Hwang '09 and Karin Fisher '12 were both in the pole vault. Fisher
jumped an indoor personal best of 11-1 3/4 to finish ninth while Hwang cleared
12-1 1/2 to finish third and remain the fourth ranked vaulter for nationals.
The men's vault followed and MIT's Greg Tao '10, was one of four individuals
to clear 15-11. At 16-5, Tao looked the best, but none of the vaulters
cleared. Tao finished fourth on misses and is now tied for 10th in the country
for Division III. Cyrus Vafadari '12, started well, clearing 13-5 1/4 but then
was unable to clear the next height.

In the 5000, Anna Holt-Gosselin '11, was going for a national qualifying time.
Her best going into the meet was 17:50. Planning on holding 5:33 mile pace,
the opening mile was near perfect at 5:32. Mile two was 11:08, so she was
still on pace. Taking the lead just as it began to slow she put together two
83 second quarters. However, at that point she faltered running a 88 and then
a 91, losing the lead. She regained focus, finishing with a 86 and then a 38
second final 200 to finish second in 17:34.39. That time currently has her
ranked 18th in the country, but will not likely be good enough to get into the
NCAA Championships as they only tend to take around 11 athletes per event.

The final event of the night was the women distance medley relay. The women
were seeded 13th nationally with a banked track time of 12:03, which converts
to a 12:06 for flat tracks according to the NCAA, and needed to move up
significantly in the rankings to gain selection. Jennifer Doyle '09, a
distance runner, led off with the 1200. Doing her best to keep up with the
leaders, Doyle went out a bit too fast, coming through the first 400 in 69 and
the 800 in 2:23. The final 400 was extremely painful but she held on to some
degree to finish in 3:47. Jones took the baton and moved up quickly, although
she too went out too fast with a 26.9 first 200, trying to make up the ground.
Finishing in 58.3, Jones handed off to Andrea Bradshaw '09, for the 800 leg.
Bradshaw also went out too fast, running the first 200 in 31 and the 400 in
65, but again, trying to make up the ground made it difficult to hold back.
Nevertheless, Bradshaw was able to finish in 2:15.8 to get MIT close to the
front. Jacqui Wentz anchored the relay and did an outstanding job getting the
team to third place with a 12:01.56 with her anchor 4:59.9 1600, leading MIT
to a new record. Due to other teams moving up in the country, MIT is still
ranked 13th, probably just outside those that will gain selection.

On Saturday, again the 55HH led things off. Any Magnuson, placed second with
yet another season best with a time of 8.24 to reach the auto standard for
qualifying for the NCAA Championship, currently holding onto fifth position.
Jones did not fair so well, finishing sixth in 8.62.

In the long jump, Morton did not jump quite as well as he was accustomed to,
but did jump 22-8 1/2 for second place. Morton has at least one minor foul at
23-6 or so. He is seeded third in the triple jump and fourth in the long jump
for next week's NCAA Championship.

The final event of the meet was the 4x400 relay. MIT had not been close to
qualifying thus far in the season but there was belief on the team that they
could run the mark needed. The problem was that MIT was placed in the third
fastest section due to their 4:02 previous best time. Nevertheless, the
quartet of Jones, Bradshaw, Martha Gross '12 and Hazel Briner '11 were ready
to go. Jones led off with an excellent 58.2 leg taking the lead on the
backstretch of the final lap. Bradshaw ran a perfect 400, nearly even
splitting a 59.6 leg for her best 400 ever. Gross also ran an excellent 400,
although she may have run the first 200 a little fast, going out in 27.8. Her
final split of 59.6 put MIT in a great position. Briner, whose best previous
400 was a 61.9, ran an excellent leg, splitting a 61.0 to give MIT a 3:58.40,
putting the team 11th on the national list at that time and setting a new MIT
record.

Over on the other side of Boston, at Boston University, the IC4A Championship
was being held. Yermie Cohen '09 and Matt Bieniosek '09, were competing for
MIT in the mile and 800 respectively. The IC4A is primarily a Division I
conference including states from North Carolina up to Maine and west to
Indiana. Cohen was in a heat where they were content to go out slow, coming
through the 800 in 2:07 and the 1200 in 3:11. Cohen was not able to go with
the leaders on the final 400 but did finish in 62 to run 4:13.53. Bieniosek
was in a great heat but was just not able to mix it up with the leaders in the
final 400 as he finished with a 1:54.79. Cohen is currently seeded 11th for
next weekend's NCAA Championship.

The only thing left for the Engineer's to do is wait to see who gets in on
Monday morning. Those provisionally qualified but not mentioned are Jones,
seeded third in the 400, Wentz seeded second in the 5000 and Doyle seeded 23rd
in the 5000. The NCAA Division III Championship will be on Friday and
Saturday, March 13-14 at Rose Hulman Institute in Terre Haute, Indiana.

RETURN TO SCHEDULE

  
  
  |  
  



|

![](../titleitf.gif)  
  
---  
  
Cross Country

  * Schedule and Results
  * Roster                   
  * Coaches                   
  * Course Maps
  * Records/Past Seasons

Indoor Track & Field  
 Schedule & Results  
 Roster  
 Coaches  
 Qualifying Standards  
 Records/Past Seasons

Outdoor Track & Field

  * Schedule and Results
  * Roster                   
  * Coaches                   
  * Qualifying Standards
  * Records/Past Seasons

  
  
Recruit Info  
Facilities  
Conference Affiliations  
Other Resources  
Alumni Info

Home  
Contact  
MIT Athletics  
MIT



|

Cohen, Morton Again Lead the Way for the Engineers Victory Against Williams
/Jones Leads Women in Losing Effort

February 7, 2009

MIT played host to track and field power house, Williams College and the Bears
from the Coast Guard Academy in an action packed meet with numerous national
regional qualifying performances for all three teams. The men's team
representing MIT was victorious with a score of 171 to 117.5 for Williams and
87.5 for Coast Guard. On the women's side Williams proved to be too deep for
MIT's small squad as the Ephs scored 213.5 to the Engineers 154 and Coast
Guard's 19.5.

The men began the meet strong with Yermie Cohen '09, last week's ECAC runner
of the week, defeating last year's national runner-up in the outdoor 1500,
Macklin Chaffee, with a negatively split 4:18.88. Hemu Arumugam '10, placed
fourth in 4:22.95 and Paul Welle '11, finished sixth in 4:24.67. With the
scoring awarding places first through sixth with a 7-5-4-3-2-1 format, MIT
began with 11 points to Williams 9.

As the hurdlers were lining up to start, Stephen Morton '10, was putting the
finishing touches on his 23-3 1/4 national qualifying long jump victory.
Mattias Flander '11, and Greg Tao '10, supported Morton, placing fourth and
sixth respectively for another 11 points. Nick Leonard '11, ran his first 55HH
race and made it count with a 8.39 victory. Again MIT scored 11 points as
Brendan Ensor '12, and Andrew Musacchio '11, claimed fourth and sixth places.
Williams managed a third in the long jump and second and fifth in the 55HH,
leaving the score after three events, MIT 33, Williams 20, Coast Guard 13.

If there was any doubt in the outcome of the men's meet, it was put to rest in
the shot put. Mitch Kelley '11, stepped up with a big PR of 45-3 to claim
first place, as Tony McDonald '10, Adam Mustafa '11, and Jared Darby '12,
earned second, third and fifth place to open up a 51 to 21 lead, which they
never relinquished.

The Engineers continued to shine throughout the meet. Cohen returned in the
800 to run a personal best of 1:58.16 to again defeat Chaffee in a close race.
Morton claimed three other victories during the meet, the 55 dash in 6.54, the
200 in a season best 22.63 and the triple jump with the second best mark in
the country for Division III at 47-10.

Tony McDonald came from behind in the 35 lb. weight throw to claim the victory
on his next to last throw with an effort of 47-5 1/4. CK Umachi '12, and Mitch
Kelley supported with personal bests and third and fourth place respectively.

The Engineers also dominated in the distance events with Arumugam and Welle
coming back from the mile to place 1-2 in the 3000 with negative split times
of 8:50.83 and 8:53.01. Gihan Amarasiriwardena '11, ran away with the 5000
victory in 15:26.51 and was supported with a third place effort by Ben
Mattocks '12, (15:43.60) and a fourth place by Jack Bourbonnais '10,
(15:52.50).

Greg Tao '10, showed his dominance once again in the pole vault with a leap of
14-8 3/4. MIT showed their depth by having three other vaulters clear 13-9;
Davey Hunt '12, Nathan Peterson '12, and Travis Hery '11.

Perhaps the best race of the day came in the final men's event, the 3200
relay. MIT and Coast Guard ran neck and neck throughout the final leg with
Matt Bieniosek '09, finishing a great day of races (52.80 400, 2:34.32 1000)
with a 1:59.4 anchor leg for a 8:02.92 victory.

All in all, MIT won 13 of 17 events they entered, choosing not to run the 1600
relay with the meet already won.

Anticipating a chance at victory against the visiting Williams squad, Hazel
Briner '11, and Portia Jones '12 were entered in 12 individual events and two
relays each. The day of the meet, two of the Engineer's stars, Jacqui Wentz
'10, and Amy Magnuson '10 were pulled from the meet due to illness and injury
prevention and distance runners, Elizabeth Finn '09, and Maggie Lloyd '12,
were also rested due to the stomach bug going through the campus. With a small
squad further depleted with the illness going around, MIT made the decision to
back off at the end of the meet and not run two of the relays.

However, in the beginning of the meet, MIT came out of the gates ready to
compete. Jones won the first event, the long jump with a personal best of 16-0
and Briner claimed the shot put with a PR of her own at 35-1. On the track,
Jennifer Doyle '09, claimed her first victory with an indoor mile PR of
5:13.33. Jones came right back and qualified for nationals with an 8.43 55HH
victory. Ten minutes later, Jones set a varsity record in the 400 with another
victory with a time of 59.93. Winning the first five events had MIT tied with
Williams at 53 points.

MIT was only able to win three other events in the meet as the quality and
depth of the Williams squad began to overwhelm the Engineers. Andrea Bradshaw
'09, won her specialty, the 800 in 2:17.85. Emily Hwang '09, qualified
provisionally for nationals in the pole vault when she won her event in 11-7.
The quartet of Alicia Kaestli '12, Adrienne Bolger '09, Kirsten Aarsvold '11,
and Bradshaw ran 9:48.73 to win the 3200 relay.

Jones score a total of 31 points by also claiming second in the 200 (26.37)
and high jump (4-11 1/2). Briner scored 19 with a third in the high jump (4-11
1/2), fourth in the long jump (14-5 3/4), fifth in the 55HH after stumbling at
the start (10.76), a fifth in the 20 lb. weight throw (29-5 1/2) although she
threw 36' on her final effort but had exceeded the time limit and a sixth in
the 55 dash (7.92). The performances in the shot put, long jump, high jump and
55 dash were all personal bests.

Other outstanding performances were earned by the Engineers. Lynn Jepsen '11,
jumped 10-1 1/4 in the pole vault for a PR and third place. Alicia Kaestli
'12, ran a personal best of 2:22. 39 in the 800 with an MIT freshman record.
Doyle came back in the 3000 with a personal best of 10:35.55 for second place
and Tania Morimoto '12, ran another outstanding race for a 10:45.88 third
place. In the 5000, Anna Holt-Gosselin raced to a 18:02.87 for second place
and a fabulous personal best. Katy Gordon ran a nice season best of 19:00.46,
just missing the 19 minute barrier.

Next week, MIT hosts the MIT Coed Invitational on 2/14 while also competing at
the Boston University Valentine's Invitational on 2/13 (women) and 2/14 (men).

RETURN TO INDOOR  
  
  |  
  



|

![](../titleitf.gif)  
  
---  
  
Cross Country

  * Schedule and Results
  * Roster                   
  * Coaches                   
  * Course Maps
  * Records/Past Seasons

Indoor Track & Field  
 Schedule & Results  
 Roster  
 Coaches  
 Qualifying Standards  
 Records/Past Seasons

Outdoor Track & Field

  * Schedule and Results
  * Roster                   
  * Coaches                   
  * Qualifying Standards
  * Records/Past Seasons

  
  
Recruit Info  
Facilities  
Conference Affiliations  
Other Resources  
Alumni Info

Home  
Contact  
MIT Athletics  
MIT



|

MIT Earns Six All America Honors at NCAA's

March 13-14, 2009

Four women and three men represented MIT at the NCAA Division III Indoor Track
and Field Championship hosted by Rose Hulman Institute of Technology in Terre
Haute, Indiana. Many more MIT athletes on the women's side qualified
provisionally but did not make the cutoff for the championship. Only the top
11 are guaranteed entry in each individual event and only 10 in the relay
events.

The first event on Friday with an MIT athlete was the women's pole vault.
Emily Hwang '09, was seeded fifth with her 12-6 vault. Hwang cleared 11-0,
11-6, 12-0 and 12-4 all on first attempts. Six women, including Hwang, cleared
12-4. However, Hwang was one of three who had not missed an attempt as yet. At
12-8, Hwang had three solid attempts, but was unable to clear the height. Four
others ended up clearing the height, placing Hwang in fifth to earn her first
All America honor and garner four points for MIT.

Stephen Morton '10, seeded seventh in the long jump, was in the first of two
flights. With nine going to the final, Morton wasted no time in positioning
himself for finals as he jumped 23-1 1/4 on his first jump. He did not better
that in the trials and he entered the finals in fifth position. In the finals,
Morton had a mid 23 jump that he barely fouled, but was unable to improve on
his first attempt. However, no one passed him in the finals and he finished in
fifth place, an improvement on his eighth place in 2008.

First up on the track was Yermie Cohen '09, in the men's mile. Cohen was in
the first of two heats where 10 of the 14 total runners would advance to
Saturday's final. Cohen ran a near perfect first 800, coming through the half
in 2:06. However, in the third quarter he got stuck on the inside and could do
nothing as the entire field passed him by. Moving to the outside he was unable
to pass the field, which was spread out over three lanes. He ran a very
respectable 4:14.43 but did not advance to the finals.

Amy Magnuson '10, set herself up to complete her comeback from last spring's
hamstring tear by running a 8.23 in the 55HH trials. The performance was her
fastest this season despite a poor start. Magnuson finished fourth overall in
the trials and will have a good lane in Saturday's final.

The final athlete to compete for the Engineers on day one was freshman, Portia
Jones. Jones was the third seed in the 400 based on her banked track time of
56.77. With the eight fastest times advancing to a two section final, Jones
knew she had to get out strong and try to get the break and hold on. Running
nearly 26 flat for the first 200, she got the break. Even though she is not
accustomed to running with serious oxygen debt, she did hold on for the narrow
heat victory in 57.64. Her time was the sixth fastest of the day and will put
her in the first of the two sections on Saturday.

The second day started as well as day one left off. Greg Tao '10, was first up
for MIT. Seeded 11th out of 15 vaulters, Tao knew he would have to be on his
game to earn All America honors. He cleared opening height at 15-1 3/4 on his
first attempt. At 15-7 3/4, Tao cleared big on his second attempt. At this
point four of the vaulters had fouled out and Tao was ahead on misses of four
of the remaining vaulters. Tao was unable to clear 16-1 3/4 but neither did
three of the four he was ahead of, which gave him eighth place and the final
All America spot.

Magnuson was next for MIT. Seeded fourth going into the finals, she had a good
lane with lane 6. With a solid start she was able to get out with the leaders.
A strong finish put her just ahead of the pack into third place with a season
best of 8.22.

Next up, Jones was back in the 400 final. Fearing the pain she went through
the in the prelims by going through the first 200 in 26.1, Jones decided to
try to come closer to running an even split race. Coming through in 27.4 was
fine but trying to pass three competitors with short straights and feeling the
fatigue did not work well. She finished fourth in her section and eighth
overall. Earning points and All America honors at nationals as a freshman is
quite a feat, but more was there to be had.

Stephen Morton was up for his second event, this time it was the triple jump,
an event in which he was seeded third. Similar to last year where he seemed to
forget how to triple jump, Morton was no where near the consistent 47-48'
jumper he had been all season. He seemed passive and cautious each time down
the runway. Barely making finals with a 46-7 1/4 jump, Morton held his eighth
position to earn an All America award and another point for MIT.

The last to compete for MIT was the second seeded, Jacqui Wentz '10, in the
5000. Running the fastest time in the country to this point in the season,
Wentz looked very comfortable in the middle of the pack through 2400 meters.
After a quick first mile in 5:27 it looked as though this was going to be a
perfect setup for someone with Wentz's combination of endurance and speed.
Whether it was the lack of longer races throughout the season or a lack of
confidence, Wentz faded in the second half of the race to finish in 18:01.62,
far from her 17:05 earlier in the season.

Earning six All America awards, three for the men and three for the women, was
an excellent end to the season. Knowing there was more the teams could have
done will hopefully make everyone a little hungrier for the outdoor season,
which begins in exactly one week.

The MIT teams will be going on the annual spring trip to California from March
22-29, competing at the Point Loma Nazarene Invitational on March 28.

RETURN TO SCHEDULE  
  
  |  
  



|

![](../titleitf.gif)  
  
---  
  
Cross Country

  * Schedule and Results
  * Roster                   
  * Coaches                   
  * Course Maps
  * Records/Past Seasons

Indoor Track & Field  
 Schedule & Results  
 Roster  
 Coaches  
 Qualifying Standards  
 Records/Past Seasons

Outdoor Track & Field

  * Schedule and Results
  * Roster                   
  * Coaches                   
  * Qualifying Standards
  * Records/Past Seasons

  
  
Recruit Info  
Facilities  
Conference Affiliations  
Other Resources  
Alumni Info

Home  
Contact  
MIT Athletics  
MIT



|

Women Win New England Division III Championship While Men Earn Tie for Second

February 20-21, 2009

The Men's and Women's Track and Field teams from MIT had their best combined
New England Division III Championship results in history this weekend. The
women won their first ever championship in this meet, out dueling Williams
College and Tufts University as well as the 21 other scoring teams with a
score of 134 points to 118 for Williams and 108 for Tufts at host Bowdoin
College. MIT hosted the men's meet, which was won by Williams College with a
145 points, having a spectacular day on the track. MIT won the final event,
the 4x800 relay to tie Tufts in the overall score for second place with 104
points.

For the first time in the history of the women's program, the team was favored
to win the championship based on the seed performances entered in the meet.
The difficult part would be to turn those seeds into points when the pressure
was on to do what was expected of you--win, and to hold off Williams College,
a team not accustomed to losing this championship and Tufts, the defending
champion.

The pentathlon was contested on day one of the championship. Hazel Briner '11,
was seeded number one, but this was based on a cumulative score of the five
events contested. The seed was not based on an actual pentathlon score, which
was actually about 400 points less. Briner did not waste any time establishing
a strong position as she ran a personal best of 9.06 in the 55HH to start off
in 2nd place. The next event was the high jump, which she cleared 4' 9" to
stay in second, but she fell further behind the leader, Morgan Jamiel from
Wheaton College. The third event, the shot put, Briner threw a PR of 36' 4.25"
to wipe out the 74 point disadvantage and take a comfortable lead. The long
jump, perhaps Briner's weakest event so despite a personal best of 14' 9.75",
she lost significant ground to the field. If the long jump is her weakest then
the 800 is Briner's strongest and she demonstrated this with a wire to wire
2:28.35 to score 3072 points for the victory. This mark also set the MIT
record as well as provisionally qualified her for nationals.

On day two, MIT picked up where they left off. In the Distance Medley Relay
(1200, 400, 800, 1600), MIT was seeded second based on their national
qualifying mark of 12:03, but only one of those women were on this team, so no
one knew what would happen. Jennifer Doyle '09, led off with a 3:45 for the
1200 to get the team off to a strong start. Kirsten Aarsvold '11, did her part
and then some as she ran an excellent 63 for the 400 leg. Alicia Kaestli '12,
performed well in the 800 with a solid 2:24. Katherine Eve '12, then turned in
a five second PR of 5:09 for the anchor leg to earn third place for the team,
one place behind Williams, which is where they were seeded. Tufts, seeded
third, finished seventh, losing some valuable points.

The next final on the list was the 5000, an event MIT was seeded to place
third and fifth. Anna Holt-Gosselin '11, continued her marvelous season with a
personal best of 17:50.41 to secure her third place seed. The big surprise to
most people who do not know her competitive drive, was the fourth place earned
by Tania Morimoto '12, with a huge personal best of 18:07.86. Elizabeth Finn
'09, added one point for her eighth place finish in a season best 18:23.49.
Although not scoring, freshman Maggie Lloyd finished ninth in a personal best
of 18:37.44. Williams gained four points on their seeds and Tufts lost two
points. The score after the three events was MIT 28, Williams 24 and Tufts 20,
based on the 10-8-6-5-4-3-2-1 scoring system.

Next on the track was the 4x200 relay, an event in which MIT was seeded third,
but had a chance to win. Portia Jones '12, led off to give MIT a nice lead.
MIT maintained the lead with Margaret Leibovic '10, on second leg, but
unfortunately, the handoffs between Leibovic and Martha Gross '12, and Gross
and Andrea Bradshaw '09, were less than necessary to hold onto the lead.
Nevertheless, MIT finished fourth with a big season best of 1:47.68. However,
Williams finished second and Tufts third to tighten the point scoring up a
bit.

In the mile, Jacqui Wentz '10, came out and took care of business, winning
handily in 5:01.84 against a very strong field. MIT caught a break here as
they received their expected points but Williams dropped five points and Tufts
lost two to give MIT 43 to Williams 34 and Tufts 32.

In the field events, MIT only had entries in the pole vault and the long jump.
However, Tufts picked up 21 points in the high jump, triple jump and weight
throw to pass MIT. Fortunately, Williams scored nothing in these events. In
the pole vault, Emily Hwang '09, jumped a new personal best of 11' 7.75" to
tie for second and Briner and Karin Fisher '11, tied for seventh at 10' 2" to
give MIT their expected 10 points. Tufts was seeded fourth and received fourth
for their five points.

Back on the track, Amy Magnuson '10, and Jones were lining up for the 55HH
final. Both had run season bests in the trials with Magnuson running 8.39 and
Jones 8.42 for the fastest two times in the field. Both ran slower, 8.44 and
8.49 respectively, but they easily secured the top two places to put MIT back
in the lead with 71 points to 63 for Tufts and 41 for Williams.

One of the more difficult challenges for Jones, was going immediately from the
55HH to line up for the 400, an event in which she was seeded number one.
Despite a big PR of 58.69 to provisionally qualify for nationals, Jones
finished second to fifth seeded Hillary Higgs from Williams. Gross was seeded
seventh, but finished ninth to just miss out on the scoring. Tufts was seeded
sixth and also did not score.

In the 600, MIT was not seeded to score and despite a season best by Aarsvold
of 1:44.86 no points were earned for MIT. Williams did pick up an expected
eight points for second place and again Tufts did not follow up on their
seventh place seed.

In the 800, Bradshaw, intent on leading from the start, had someone do the
work for her through the first 700 meters. Bradshaw displayed a vicious kick
to pull away in a new MIT record of 2:15.18. This time moves Bradshaw up
significantly on the national provisional list. MIT scored their allotted 10
points, but Williams despite scoring 10 points, was seeded for 14. The score
now stood at MIT 89, Williams 71 and Tufts 71 after the two had scored two and
eight points respectively in the 55 dash.

Wentz was back on the in the 1000, an event MIT was seeded for 13 points with
Wentz seeded second and Adrienne Bolger, '09, last year's runner-up seeded
fourth. Wentz took care of business, running a new best of 2:59.18 for the
victory. However, Bolger did not have a very good race and did not score.
MIT's dropped three points combined with Williams scoring the 12 they were
supposed to score, meant Williams still had life. Tufts was supposed to score
nine and only garnered seven to further help MIT's cause.

Back to the infield, Tufts added another nine points in the long jump and shot
put, while Magnuson came through big with a third place 17' 4.75" in the long
jump. Williams continued to be blanked in the field with no points to help
their cause. With four events to go MIT was leading with 105 points to 87 for
Tufts and 83 for Williams.

Jones was back on the track yet again for the 200. She was seeded fifth, with
both Tufts and Williams seeded ahead of her. Both opponents did finish ahead,
but Jones moved up a place to fourth with a flat track personal best of 26.10.

Knowing that anything can happen in a relay, MIT needed big points in the 3000
to secure the victory. The seeds were in MIT's favor if they followed through
on bringing Holt-Gosselin back after the 5K as she was seeded 5th in the 3000.
Doyle was also doubling, coming back from the 1200 leg in the DMR. With the
meet too close the call, Holt-Gosselin was ready to deliver and she did,
coming through with a huge race, placing third with a new MIT record, which
Doyle just set last week, in 10:11.88. Doyle ran very well in this talented
field, placing sixth in 10:20.67. Both MIT and Williams scored nine points to
zero for Tufts, who did not have an entry. With just the 4x400 and 4x800
remaining, MIT needed just two points to guarantee the victory over Williams.

It did not take long for the quartet of Gross, Bradshaw, Briner and Jones to
establish the fact they meant to close this meet out. Running a season best of
4:02.73 for their sixth victory of the meet. To finish the meet, Bolger,
Kaestli, Eve and Wentz ran 9:41.16 for fourth place.

Back in Cambridge, the same three teams were doing battle on the men's side.
MIT did not have any entrants in the pentathlon, but Tufts managed 13 points
and Williams 3.

The story on Saturday was Williams College far exceeding their seeds, which
had them at 96 points, MIT falling just a little short of their 108 points and
Tufts dropping the ball in a couple of areas to fall short of their expected
119 points.

The first finals for MIT were the long jump and weight throw. Following his
trend in these meets, Stephen Morton '10, pulled out the long jump victory on
his final attempt with a 22' 7.75 effort. Mattias Flander '11, was seeded
sixth but failed to score as he just did not seem to show his competitive
fire. At the other end of the infield, Adam Mustafa '11, and Tony McDonald
'10, who were not supposed to even make finals, placed fourth and sixth
respectively with personal bests of 50' 8.25" and 49' 7.25". MIT was already
five points up on their seeds and looking good.

The mile was the first final on the track. Yermie Cohen '09, was seeded third,
but was thinking he had a good chance of winning. Unfortunately, no one wanted
to take the pace out as all the top runners were tripling in the meet. The
first 400 was a pedestrian 69 and the 800 not much better at 2:17. Finally the
pace picked up, dropping most of the field. Cohen finished strong but got
nipped at the line and had to settle for third place after all in 4:19.72.

In the pole vault, MIT really turned it on. Despite a no-height by Nathan
Peterson '12, and injuries to Nate Sharpe '09 and Ian Fischer '12, MIT still
had four of the final nine vaulters in the 19 person field. Greg Tao added a
foot to his season best with a new PR and national qualifying mark of 15' 9.25
to claim the victory. A huge surprise was Cyrus Vafadari '12, clearing 14' 6"
for a new personal best and fourth place. Travis Hery '11, placed sixth at 14'
and Davey Hunt '12, also cleared 14' although he did not score, finishing
ninth. Seeded to get eight points and netting 18 was just what the Engineers
needed.

The 15 points MIT was up overall, started to dwindle when MIT next had races
on the track. Nick Leonard '11, was favored to place seventh in the 400, but
due to his bout with a cold, he was not at his best. He did not get the break
despite a slow pace by the leaders and then finished with a coughing fit, just
allowing him to make it to the finish line. Next, in the 600, John Granata
'11, also suffering from a bad could and a tight hamstring, was not able to
deliver. Although he was not expected to place, seeded ninth, he has the
talent to win the event, so there was hope.

In the 55 dash, Morton was back in action, but had his worst start of the
year. Despite coming out last, he ran a terrific final 40 meters to get back
to third place. He was seeded second so the loss was only two points.

In the 800, Matt Bieniosek '09, continued his great season. Running a
controlled race, Bieniosek moved to the front in the final half of the race
but was just unable to hold the lead, running 1:57.38, settling for third
place, losing to second by .01 seconds. Bieniosek was seeded third so he
earned his expected points.

Cohen was back up in the 1000 where he was the third seed along with teammate,
Bill Phipps '10, who was seeded fourth. Cohen was not in the race from the
start, falling to the rear and losing to John Chaffee of Williams for the
second time this day. Phipps ran an outstanding race, nearly matching his
banked track race from the week before with a third place in 2:31.95.

Morton had to leave the triple jump, where he had just set an MIT record and
qualified automatically for nationals with a 48' 6.75" effort, to race in the
finals of the 200. Unfortunately, Morton earned lane four out of the trials, a
disadvantage to lanes five and six. Almost overcoming the odds, Morton ran a
season best and an amazing time from lane four, to place second with a 22.41.
Morton was seeded third, so he gained two points for MIT but Kahlil Dozier
'12, seeded eighth, did not place, so the net gain was one.

Morton was the co-number one seed in the triple and in the final attempt, Alex
Samma from Connecticut College jumped 48' 8.25" to steal the event victory. On
his final attempt, Morton was again out over 48' but it was not enough.
Flander came back with the competitiveness he usually brings to the runway,
placing fourth with a season best of 45' 7.75".

With only the distance events and the three relays to go, MIT was in a good
position to take down Tufts, but Williams was already out of reach. In the
3000, an event MIT was seeded to place second and third, some lingering
sickness and a bad day combined to give MIT only fourth place for Paul Welle
'11, and seventh place for Hemu Arumugam '10. Ben Mattocks '12, ran a personal
best of 8:52.29 but did not place.

The 5000 was also a disappointment for MIT, but only because of the potential,
not the seeds. Dan Harper '12, was seeded to place seventh and that was
exactly what he did, passing three runners in the final 200, coming back from
a disappointing middle mile where he did not race well. Gihan Amarasiriwardena
'11, looking to place high despite not being seeded well, had his shoe spiked
early in the race, ripping all the laces and causing his shoe to flap out of
control. Unable to run properly, a disappointed Amarasiriwardena dropped out.

MIT had a strong team in the DMR, but again was counting on individuals who
had been sick over the past three weeks. Richard Prevost '11, led off with a
superb 3:10.8 1200 leg. Kahlil Dozier '12, went out too quickly, causing him
to fade badly at the finish, leading to a poor handoff and putting MIT at a
disadvantage. Kevin Kleinguetl '11, ran a solid race, coming in at 2:01.7 for
his best race this season. Jake Ruzevick '09, had only returned to running for
a few days after missing two weeks. He did his best to hold the lead, but
eventually was run down, dropping MIT to fifth, one place lower than their
seed. Tufts won the race, moving to 10 points ahead of MIT.

MIT was depending on a cramping Stephen Morton and a sick Nick Leonard and
John Granata for the 4x400, hoping to gain some ground on Tufts. Leonard and
Dave Reshef 'G, ran 52 legs, but were still in very good position. Granata
turned in a reasonable 51 split to put MIT in the thick of the race. Morton
went with the two leaders through the 200 and looked strong, but that was when
his hamstring tightened up so he did as instructed and pulled off the track.
Tufts did not score so the deficit was still 10 points.

In the final event, the 4x800, MIT led off with a 1:59.0 from Bill Phipps,
establishing the lead. Freshman, Stephen Serene donated a 2:00.6 to the cause,
a season best. Cohen came back and ran well, giving Bieniosek the baton in the
lead after a 1:59.4 leg. Bieniosek knew that 7:59 won the first section and
that Tufts seemed to be having a bad race and appeared out of it. He needed a
1:59 to secure the victory and tie for second overall with Tufts. Going out in
27 for the first 200, Bieniosek did not look back, running 1:55.8 for his
anchor leg to give MIT a 7:55.28 victory and a tie for second place with 104
points.

Next week, MIT will race at Boston University, the host site for the All
Division New England Championship. Only a select few men and women have
qualified for the meet. MIT's goal will not be to score points but to set
people up for nationals.

RETURN TO SCHEDULE





  
  
  |  
  



|

![](../titleitf.gif)  
  
---  
  
Cross Country

  * Schedule and Results
  * Roster                   
  * Coaches                   
  * Course Maps
  * Records/Past Seasons

Indoor Track & Field  
 Schedule & Results  
 Roster  
 Coaches  
 Qualifying Standards  
 Records/Past Seasons

Outdoor Track & Field

  * Schedule and Results
  * Roster                   
  * Coaches                   
  * Qualifying Standards
  * Records/Past Seasons

  
  
Recruit Info  
Facilities  
Conference Affiliations  
Other Resources  
Alumni Info

Home  
Contact  
MIT Athletics  
MIT



|

Women Trump Last Week's Results

**Five NCAA Qualifying Marks Lead the Way**

February 27-28, 2009

Starting up where they left off last week, the Engineers did not miss a beat
as five MIT athletes qualified or bettered their qualifying mark in the first
five events they competed in at the All Division New England Championship
(NEICAAA).

Choosing to rest some key performers who raced multiple events last weekend,
MIT went after national qualifying marks for a few athletes rather than try to
outscore the other teams in this championship, matching teams from all three
NCAA divisions within the New England region.

Hazel Briner '11, got things started, trying to improve her mark in the
pentathlon. Her high hurdles was a new personal best of 8.88. After a strong
high jump of 4-10 1/2, Briner fouled her first two shot puts, the second a
nice bomb of about 38'. Her final throw was a safety of only 31'. She finished
with a 2:26.99 800 to score 3106 for a new PR and place third in the
competition. However, her new mark still has her at 11th overall in the
national ranking. The fact that the NCAA is not likely to take more than 11 to
the championship field means she has to try another pent. at the ECAC
Championship next week.

Martha Gross '12, was first up in the 400. She set the table by running a PR
of 59.88 to claim the number two spot on the all-time MIT list. Portia Jones
'12, decided to run most of the 400 as a race, getting out in 26.9 for the
first 200 and finishing in a new MIT record of 56.77. Jones's mark put her at
number three on the national ranking.

In the pole vault, Emily Hwang '09, cleared a new personal best of 12-6,
shattering the MIT record and qualifying automatically for the NCAA Division
III Championship. Hwang's third place finish was complimented by an indoor
personal best of 11-0 1/4 by Karin Fisher '11.

Andrea Bradshaw '09, improved her personal best in the 800 with a 2:15.00 in
winning her heat to qualify for the finals on Saturday. Her mark was on a
banked track so due to the NCAA penalty imposed on banked tracks, her 2:15.18
on a flat track is higher on the NCAA performance list.

Jennifer Doyle '09, running out of the slow section in the 5000 due to her
18:45 time from earlier in the season, took no prisoners as she took the lead
at the start. Running the first 1600 in 5:33, Doyle slowed slightly to 86
second quarters as she came through 3200 in 11:17. As she proceeded to lap the
entire field, she finished with a 81 400 before the final 200 in 38 seconds,
showing there is more in the tank. Doyle's 17:35.15 was a provisional
qualifying for the NCAA Championship and placed fourth overall in this
competition. Tania Morimoto '12, went after a sub 17:50 performance, but after
solid 1600 splits of 5:38 and 11:24, faded in the final 1800 meters to finish
in 18:24.04.

Amy Magnuson '10, had a shaky start in the 55HH, but recovered to race to a
8.45 finish to qualify for the semi-finals on Saturday.

Finishing the first day for the women, Jones was back on the track in the 200.
Setting a new MIT record is becoming the default performance for Jones and she
did not disappoint as she toured the oval in 25.56 to shatter her own mark.

On the men's side, Greg Tao '10, cleared 15-3, but was unable to have any
consistency with his approach and could not clear 15-9.

Matt Bieniosek '09, ran his personal best in the 800, just missing the
provisional qualifying mark for nationals with a 1:54.36. Bieniosek will try
next week to improve his time to give himself a chance of making nationals.

Katherine Eve '12, led things off for the Engineers on day two with the mile
run. Sitting at the back of the pack until there was only 400 meters to go,
Eve took herself out of the race. However, her 75 second final quarter did
give her a personal best of 5:13.00.

In the men's mile, Yermie Cohen '09, raced in the seeded section but was the
slowest seed at 4:13. He did not let this affect his racing however. Running
in the back of the pack with solid splits of 61.5 and 2:04.9, Cohen moved up
in the pack even though he slowed to 3:09.3. In the final quarter he picked it
up, closing with a 61.4 for a 4:11.30, placing fifth overall. Cohen's time
currently ranks him ninth on the NCAA list.

Amy Magnuson returned in the semi-finals of the 55HH, winning her heat in
8.41, but in the final was only able to duplicate her performance, which
netted her a fifth place.

Portia Jones got out well in the finals of the 400, possibly too fast at 26.2,
even though she did not get the break. She closed well but did not pass on the
backstretch as she should have. Her finish in 57.62 was good for sixth place
overall.

The final event for MIT was the finals of the women's 800. Bradshaw got out
well, coming through the 400 in 64 and in the middle of the lead group. Just
after the 500 mark she was bumped just as she was moving with the leaders.
This knocked her to the third lane and caused her to lose ground. She
recovered and moved up, but at the 700 meter mark she was partially tripped
from behind and totally lost it after such a fast first 400, finishing in
2:16.32.

Next week, MIT will send some athletes to Tufts University, the host school
for the ECAC Division III Championship.

RETURN TO SCHEDULE  
  
  |  
  



|

![](../titleitf.gif)  
  
---  
  
Cross Country

  * Schedule and Results
  * Roster                   
  * Coaches                   
  * Course Maps
  * Records/Past Seasons

Indoor Track & Field  
 Schedule & Results  
 Roster  
 Coaches  
 Qualifying Standards  
 Records/Past Seasons

Outdoor Track & Field

  * Schedule and Results
  * Roster                   
  * Coaches                   
  * Qualifying Standards
  * Records/Past Seasons

  
  
Recruit Info  
Facilities  
Conference Affiliations  
Other Resources  
Alumni Info

Home  
Contact  
MIT Athletics  
MIT



|

Jacqui Wentz Leads Engineers at Boston University Terrier Invitational

January 23-24, 2009

On day one of the competition at the Boston University Terrier Invitational,
the MIT Women's Track and Field team, had two freshman records and two varsity
records. The most impressive of those came at the end of the day when Jacqui
Wentz '10, toured the 200 meter, banked track, 25 times to smash the varsity
record in the 5000 and became the first woman in the country to make the NCAA
Division III Indoor Championship automatic standard by racing to a varsity
record of 17:05.20. Coming through 1600 splits of 5:19, 5:31 and 5:35, Wentz
held on despite the fatigue at the end.

Earlier in the meet, many women produced personal bests. In the pole vault,
Hazel Briner '11, cleared 10' for the first time. Emily Hwang '09, and Karin
Fisher '11, both cleared 10-6.

On the track, Portia Jones smashed the 200 freshman and varsity record when
she raced to a 26.28 performance. Another freshman, Martha Gross, bettered the
freshman record in the 400 with a 61.65 effort.

In the 800, Andrea Bradshaw '09, ran a season best of 2:17.77, but never
really raced to her potential as she went right to the back of the pack.

Katherine Eve '12, ran a personal best in the mile with a 5:14.26, moving her
to number four on the all time MIT list.

Just before the distance events, the 4x400 team took to the track. The quartet
of Gross, Jones, Briner and Bradshaw ran a season best 4:03.11 to record the
second fastest time in MIT indoor history. Gross led off with a 61.8, followed
by Jones in 58.1, Briner in 63.0 and Bradshaw in 60.1.

In the 3000, Elizabeth Finn '09, showed signs of her old self when she
finished well in a time of 10:37.83. Tania Morimoto '12, also in the 3000, ran
a best of 10:48.08.

In the 5000, in addition to Wentz, Maggie Lloyd '12 raced to a big personal
best of 18:43.68, running around 2:00 faster than she did last year in high
school.

On Saturday, the quartet of Bradshaw, Jones, Gross and Wentz again took to the
track, this time in the distance medley relay. In an effort to qualify for
nationals the team wanted to run in the 12:05 range. Bradshaw opened up in the
1200, an event she had never raced in before. She went with the pack at the
start of the race, coming through the 400 in 69 but then quickly stopped
racing, finishing the leg in 3:48.8. Jones took the baton and ran a 58.8 leg
by herself. Gross, running the 800 for the first time at MIT and third time in
her life, went out too fast, running 31 for the first 200 and struggled home
in 2:29.6. Although Wentz was by herself she nevertheless pressed the pace and
ran 5:04.2 for her best ever 1600. Unfortunately the time of 12:21.43 did not
come close to qualifying nationally.

On the men's side, there were also some highlights. Perhaps the best event for
the Engineers was the pole vault. Both Nate Sharpe '09 and Travis Hery '11
both vaulted to personal bests with marks of 14-3 1/4 and 13-9 1/4
respectively. Greg Tao '10, also cleared 14-3 1/4.

Stephen Morton had average performances by his standards. In the jumps, Morton
never quite got accustomed to the extremely bouncy elevated runway and fouled
more than usual. His long jump at 22-2 1/4 and triple jump at 47-2 1/2 were an
example of an average day. His sprint results were also ordinary. In the dash
the soft infield produced a 55 sprint time of 6.62 and on the banked oval he
ran 22.70 due to the fact that he was not very aggressive.

Both Tony McDonald '10, and Adam Mustafa '11, threw personal bests in the 35
lb. weight throw. McDonald threw 49-4 1/4 and Mustafa threw 47-2 1/2.

Back on the track, Nick Leonard '11, and Kahlil Dozier '12, ran personal bests
in the 400. Leonard dropped over two seconds off his indoor best, running
51.02. Dozier continued his weekly improvement by running 53.21 in the two
lapper.

In the 800, Dave Reshef 'G, and Logan Daum '11, ran indoor bests of 1:59.68
and 2:04.06 respectively. Right after them, the 1000 was run and the trio of
Yermie Cohen '09, Matt Bieniosek '09, and Bill Phipps '10, all ran season or
personal bests. Cohen won the section in 2:31.11 while Bieniosek was close
behind in 2:31.92. Phipps, after leading the first 400, fell back to 2:33.18.

In the distance events, four runners ran personal bests. The 3000 was first
with Hemagiri Arumugam '10, and Paul Welle '11, representing MIT. Both ran
consistent 69-70 second 400s until unleashing vicious final 200s of 30 and 32
respectively to finish in 8:37.41 and 8:39.10. Dan Harper '12, ran an
excellent race in the 5000 where he fell off the back end of the race, still
ran 75s and finished with a 31 to run 15:16.87. Gihan Amarasiriwardena '10,
was moved up at the last minute to the fast section, which was probably a
little too fast, and did not get to finish his warmup. Nevertheless, he ran an
inspired 4:38 first mile, held onto a 5:00 second mile and then fell apart
with a 5:12 final mile en route to a best of 15:27.77.

Next week, MIT travels to Bowdoin College in Maine to compete against Bowdoin,
Colby, Springfield and Tufts in a 5-way meet.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



|

![](../titleitf.gif)  
  
---  
  
Cross Country

  * Schedule and Results
  * Roster                   
  * Coaches                   
  * Course Maps
  * Records/Past Seasons

Indoor Track & Field  
 Schedule & Results  
 Roster  
 Coaches  
 Qualifying Standards  
 Records/Past Seasons

Outdoor Track & Field

  * Schedule and Results
  * Roster                   
  * Coaches                   
  * Qualifying Standards
  * Records/Past Seasons

  
  
Recruit Info  
Facilities  
Conference Affiliations  
Other Resources  
Alumni Info

Home  
Contact  
MIT Athletics  
MIT



|

Women Set Six Varsity Records in Final Tune-up Before Championships

February 13-14, 2009

The Lady Engineers had their best meet to date as they shattered six MIT
varsity records at the Valentines Invitational hosted by Boston University.
Portia Jones '12, led the way with two of these records, running 59.02 in the
400 and 25.98 in the 200 to break her own freshman and varsity records. The
most impressive single performance was run by Jacqui Wentz '10, who ran
5:00.33 in the mile to provisionally qualify for nationals and break the MIT
record by over nine seconds.

Andrea Bradshaw '09, broke her own 800 record with a national provisional
qualifying time of 2:15.83. Jennifer Doyle '09, broke the 3000 varsity record
with an impressive 10:11.98, running all of her 400 splits between 82-84
seconds.

Even though they did not set any records, many MIT women ran outstanding races
and season and personal bests. Anna Holt-Gosselin '11, ran over a 14 second PR
in the mile, and breaking the old varsity record with a 5:08.53 winning
effort. Also in the distance events, Tania Morimoto '12, ran a 10 second
personal best of 10:34.46.

Kirsten Aarsvold '11, ran a two second personal best in the 500 with a 1:22.12
section victory. Amy Magnuson '10, continued her comeback from last springs
hamstring tear with a national qualifying 8.40 in the 55HH.

Martha Gross ran an indoor personal best in the 400 with a 60.83. In the 200
Margaret Leibovic '10, ran a season best of 27.18. In the final event of the
first day, the 1000 meters, Adrienne Bolger '09, returned to normal form with
a 3:01.18 performance and Katherine Eve '12, ran a PR of 3:03.45.

To start day two, the women picked up where they left off, qualifying for
nationals in the distance medley relay with yet another MIT record, running
12:03.55. Doyle led off in the 1200 leg with a 3:43.9. Jones did not get out
well, but after the first 50 meters she was unbelievable, running 57.7 for the
400. Bradshaw took the baton in second place, made up the twenty meter
difference just after the first 400, which she split in 67, but then slowed
even as she continued to pull away, finishing in 2:19.1. Wentz anchored,
pulled away even more, but with no one to race found it difficult to run as
fast as she is capable, finishing in 5:02.8.

The men ran the distance medley relay the first day, hoping to just run fast
enough to get a time that would guarantee the fast section at next week's New
England Division III Championship. Richard Prevost '11, started everything off
with a very well run 3:08 1200. Kahlil Dozier '12, ran his first of four races
for the weekend and ran a personal best relays split of 52.3. Stephen Serene
'12, went out a little fast and died coming into the final lap, posting a 2:03
leg. Paul Welle '11, ran a great anchor mile in 4:20 to give the Engineers a
10:24.70, accomplashing their goal.

On day two, the milers got things going and Yermie Cohen '09, led the way with
a personal best 4:13.34. Welle came back for the open mile, running 4:22.53.
Hemu Arumugam '10, also ran the mile, posting a 4:23.40.

In the 400, both MIT runners ran big personal bests. Nick Leonard '11, was up
first, and toured the track twice in 50.13. Dozier continued his improvements
with a 51.63 performance. Not long afterwards, Dozier returned to the track in
the 200 and ran yet another personal best, this time a 22.70. Stephen Morton
'10, ran a season best 22.43 despite being sick.

Continuing to return to his winning ways with his comeback from his injury
during cross country season, Kevin Kleinguetl '11, ran 1:08.28 in the 500.

In the 800, Matt Bieniosek '09, continued to run well despite the distance.
After splitting 57.0 at the 400, he brought it home in 1:55.51 for a personal
best. Dave Reshef 'G, ran a season best of 1:59.53 even though he has been
sick for a couple of weeks. Stephen Serene '12, ran a season best of 2:00.92.

Bill Phipps '10, led the way in the 1000, running a personal best of 2:31.28.
Richard Prevost '11, also ran a personal best, finishing in 2:33.99.

Dozier came back to lead off the 4x400 relay and did well with a 51.8 opening
leg. Bieniosek followed up with a 50.5 leg. Reshef ran a 50.9 with Leonard
achoring in 50.7 for a cumulative 3:23.96 effort.

Late in the evening, in the 3000, Gihan Amarasiriwardena '11, ran a 8:43.15
while teammate Dan Harper '12, ran 8:49.67.

In the final event of the night, the 5000, Jack Bourbonnais '10, recovered
from a 32 first 200 to finish in an indoor best of 15:40.33. Freshman Ben
Mattocks ran a personal best of 15:41.54.

Back at the MIT Coed Invite, where the field event competitors were going at
it, Amy Magnuson showed she could still long jump even without much practice
as she went 17-4 1/4. In the pole vault, Emily Hwang '09, jumped well again,
clearing 11-5 1/4, while Karin Fisher '11, cleared an indoor best of 10-11
1/2.

On the men's side a few PRs were had. Brendan Ensor '12, hurdled his way to a
8.57. Greg Tao '10, not only won the pole vault in 14-8 3/4 he also long
jumped 20-7 3/4. In the weight throw, CK Umachi '12, Jonathan Garrity '11, and
Douglas Blake '12, all threw personal bests; 44-2 3/4, 38-1 1/4, 37-4 1/2
respectively.

RETURN TO SCHEDULE  
  
  |  
  



