**ALUMNI OVERWHELM VARSITY  
**

The Alumni showed up in unexpected force (24 members) to overwhelm the varsity
66 to 56 this past Saturday. Once again Bill Singhose '90 led the way both in
points (21) and rounding up the best Alumni Team yet.

The meet began as usual with a very exciting 35 lb. Weight Throw. John
Wallberg 'G, returned from his internship on Wednesday and wasted no time
qualifying for Nationals with a throw of 53-7 3/4 on his last effort to
surpass his former coach John-Paul Clarke '91. Chris Masalsky '91 showed that
you do not need to practice to throw your best as he threw 48-11 1/4 for 3rd
place.

The Long Jump was less eventful as Bill easily outdistanced the field with a
22-5 1/4 effort. Morio Alexander 'G had a indoor personal best with 21-0 for
second. Kevin Scannell '91 was a little off his best, but still got third with
a jump of 20-9.

The High Jump could have been a sweep for the Alumni, but Singhose decided to
take it easy on the Varsity and let Andy Ugarov '95, and James Kirtley '94
take 1st and 2nd respectively with jumps of 6-2 and 6-0. Fresh off the injured
list, Ravi Sastry '98 placed third with 5-10.

The Shot Put was hotly contested right to the end when Singhose threw a "huge"
personal best of 46-5 3/4 to surpass Chris Masalsky's personal best of 45-10
1/2. Wallberg re-discovered his technique on his 5th throw to pass Clarke for
third.

Scannell showed his former form by winning the Triple Jump with a leap of
45-5. He was followed closely by Singhose with 44-4. Alexander again prevented
an Alumni sweep with a jump of 42-0 1/4.

In the Pole Vault, the matchup between Singhose and Dafe Ogagan '97 never
materialized due to Ogagan being injured and Singhose pulling a hamstring in
the early part of the 400 meters. Fortunately for Bill he had at least gotten
in a successful attempt at 13-0 to secure 2nd place. First place was garnered
by Andrew Jamieson '99 at 13-6. Sam Sidiqi jumped to 1 foot personal best with
a 12-6 effort for 3rd place.

As usual, the running events offered a little more success for the Varsity.
Matt Sandholm showed that he is almost back with a 6.71 victory in the 55
dash. Mark Dunzo '91 demonstrated that he could still turn them over as he ran
6.81 for 2nd. He was followed closely by Akin Aina '96 in 6.82.

In the High Hurdles, Singhose still reigned supreme, easily taking Sastry in
7.7 to 8.1. Sherrett Walker '93 edged out Dave Ratliff '99 for third in 9.0

The 200 meters was the 2nd to last event and was the last chance for the
Varsity to pull the meet out. The Varsity needed 1st and 2nd to have a
realistic chance with the 5000 and 800 relay remaining. However, Aina ran a
great race, almost edging Sandholm for 1st (23.58 to 23.78). Marlon Osbourne
'98 was 3rd in 24.15.

The 400 meters saw a Varsity sweep thanks to Singhose pulling up in the 1st
turn. Osbourne, Brad Geilfuss 'G, and Neal Karchem '99 ran 1, 2, 3 with times
of 53.84, 54.03, and 54.48.

In the 800 meters the best race of the day developed as Dan Helgesen '97 was
determined to succeed in taking down Ethan Crain '95. After having failed in
the 1500 earlier, Dan tried a new tactic. He stayed back in the early part of
the race and let his teammates do the work. Edgar Ngwenya 'G took the early
pace (28, 59) until Crain sprinted to the front. Joel Ford '98 took off after
Crain and passed him with 300 meters to go. Helgesen then came out of nowhere
and never looked back. Helgesen ran 1:59.84 to Crain's 1:59.97. Ford followed
closely with a 2:00.91.

As already mentioned, Crain showed no mercy in the 1500. Letting Leif Seed '99
and Helgesen do the work in the early going, Ethan took the lead with 200
meters to go. Leif did not respond soon enough and Dan was out of it until the
last 50 meters. Ethan ran 4:02.75 to Leif's 4:04.77 and Dan's 4:05.58.

In the 5000 meters, freshman Chris McGuire missed Ethan Crain's freshman
record by 3 tenths of a second in his 5000 debut. McGuire, Terry McNatt '87,
and Jesse Darley '95 formed a tight pack for most of the race. Terry pulled
away with about 3/4 of a mile to go. McGuire ran a tough race. Even though he
was in a lot of pain he maintained his pace for a 15:27.42 3rd place finish.
Terry won in 15:18.39 with Jesse close behind in 15:20.35.

The 800 Relay was a formality, but nevertheless, both teams put forth a great
effort. The Alumni brought Ayisi Makatiani out of hiding as a surprise
entrant, but that was not enough as the Varsity easily pulled away with a time
of 1:36.76.

After the meet, both teams gathered at Coach Taylor's for some snacks,
refreshments, and good times. A good time was had by all, and the old-timers
walked away with pride intact.

All those who competed are listed below. Brian Moore and Bobb White were in
attendance, but did not compete.  

Akin Aina

Anton Briefer

Jay Chiang

John-Paul Clarke

Doug Cornwall

Ethan Crain

Jesse Darley

Mark Dunzo

Rod Hinman

Hung Hoang

Gordy Holterman

Glenn Hopkins

Malik King

James Kirtley

Chris Masalsky

Elliott Mason

Terry McNatt

Kevin Scannell

Arnold Seto

Isiah Shalom

Bill Singhose

Andy Ugarov

Sherrett Walker

Bing Wang  
  




**MIT COMPETES WELL AT BEAVER RELAYS  
**

MIT's post holiday competition got underway on January 11th with an
Invitational/Relay Meet. Participating colleges were Tufts, Coast Guard,
Westfield State, Umass/Boston and of course MIT. The meet was non-scoring, but
very competitive.

MIT had a very good showing in the meet, garnering first place in 8 out of 17
events. The winners were; Matt Sandholm '97 in both the 55 and 200 Meter
Dashes with times of 6.66 and 23.45 respectively, Mike Parkins '99 in the 3000
Meters with a time of 9:01.43, the 1600 Meter Relay Team of Morio Alexander
'G, Brad Geilfuss 'G, Edgar Ngwenya 'G, and John Kim '98 with a time of 3:34.
98, the Distance Medley Relay Team (1200, 400, 800, 1600 meters) of Chris
McGuire '00, Lincoln Bonner '97, Joel Ford '98, and Dan Helgesen '97 with a
time of 10:57.50, John Wallberg in the 35 Lb. Wt. with a throw of 52-09 1/4,
Alexander in the Triple Jump with a leap of 43-03 1/4, and Andrew Jamieson in
the Pole Vault with a jump of 13-09.

It was a nice meet to shake out the cobwebs from the Holiday layoff. A number
of athletes realized that they needed to get in shape and meet ready, but
overall the athletes looked like they are preparing for a successful season.

Next week begins the 3 week quad-cup series. MIT travels to Williams for the
first time since 1989. During the Coach Taylor era, MIT has met Williams 14
times indoors in non-championship meets. MIT has won 8 of those, but has not
defeated Williams since 1991. The winner of this meet has gone on to win the
New England Division III Championships in 10 of the 14 years.




**Men's Track Gains Experience at IC4As  
**

The Men's Track Team Members who qualified for the IC4As did pretty well this
weekend at Princeton. The IC4A Championships are the oldest and most
prestigious championship in the United States. It is primarily a Division I
Conference, but other division Institutions can join. To qualify for this meet
is quite an achievement at our level. To see the standards necessary to
qualify for the meet look up this URL:
<http://web.mit.edu/athletics/www/intercol/mens/xc/indoorstandards.html>.

John Wallberg 'G, started things off in the Weight Throw. After some good
warm-ups, John started okay with 57-7 3/4 effort. Needing only 60' to make
finals, we both thought he would be there. However, on his next two throws he
stepped wide and was out of position, making his first throw his best one.
John finished 12th overall.

Joel Ford '98, was up next in the 1000. He was seeded 19th out of 25, but
finished 15th with an even split 2:30.35 effort. Joel had to quickly get his
mind off of this race and concentrate on his next one in less than 2 hours,
the 3200 Relay.

Last, was the relay. The relay team qualified for this meet with a 7:44.40
effort the week before at Boston University's very fast banked track. The goal
was to make the finals, which historically takes about a 7:40 effort. Dan
Helgesen '97, led things off, staying competitive, and running a much better
race than the week before with a 1:57.6 first leg. Leif Seed '99, was next and
ran a great leg, taking off after the competition in splits of 26, 54, and
1:23 to finish in 1:54.0. Edgar Ngwenya 'G, began the leg competitively with
splits of 27, 56, and 1:26, but faded badly in the last 200 to a 2:00.2,
putting the team out of any chance to make the finals. Joel ran as if he were
unaffected by the team's position or his previous race, and ran a very
competitive 1:56.6.

John will be going on to Nationals this Thursday to compete on Friday at the
University of Wisconsin-Oshkosh.




**WALLBERG EARNS 5TH ALL-AMERICA AWARD, 1ST NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP  
**

The Men's Indoor Track and Field Team had two qualifiers for the NCAA Division
III Indoor Track and Field Championships held at the University of Wisconsin -
Oshkosh. However, only John Wallberg 'G made it in. Mike Butville '98, had
qualified provisionally in the 35 Lb. Weight Throw, the same event as John,
but did not get in.

John had the best mark (60-02) entering the competition, leading the field by
nearly 2 feet. The competition was set up so that there would be two flights
(one of 6, and one of 7), each participant receiving 3 throws, with the best
eight making the final and an opportunity for 3 more throws. John was
scheduled to throw in the second flight. The first flight did not show much.
The second seeded thrower did not throw well and did not even make the finals.
The best throw coming out of the first flight was 54-3.

John did not begin well. A slow circle, combined with John's late step-in led
to a sub par 55-10 throw in the trials. This not only gave others hope, but
put John in second behind a Bate's thrower with 56-4.

After correcting the technique problem during the ensuing warm-up period, John
led off his final's throws with a 59-4 effort. No one got any closer, and John
won by 3 feet. On his last two throws, John attempted to go for the MIT Record
of 61-4, but it was not to be.

John finished his MIT career with the Freshman Records in both the Weight and
Hammer, as well as the Varsity Record in the Hammer. He made the National
Championships all but his freshman year indoors. He finished 6th Indoors his
Sophomore year for his first All-America Award. His Junior year he was 4th
Indoors and 3rd Outdoors. His Senior year, John red-shirted his Indoor Season,
but took 2nd Outdoors.




**MIT FINISHES 2ND IN CHAMPIONSHIPS  
  
**

MIT finished 2nd to Williams College this weekend in the New England Division
III Championships held at MIT. Once again Williams College was able to pull
out the victory over MIT and 25 other teams with a score of 99 points to 87 to
MIT. Wheaton College followed very closely behind with 86 1/2 points for
third.

The Engineers did as well as could possibly have been expected, getting
personal or seasonal bests from 12 of 16 performers in individual events. Most
of this occurred after Matt Sandholm '97 pulled his hamstring in the 55 Meter
Dash Trials. Matt was expected to not only score at least 12 points, but push
back the scores from Williams and Wheaton in those events. Going into the meet
Tech was seeded to get 4th behind Wheaton, Williams, and Brandeis University.

The meet began on Friday at noon with the Pentathlon. MIT hoped to get 10
points out of the event with Ravi Sastry '98 and Lincoln Bonner '97 both
entered in the event (points are awarded with 10 for 1st, 8 for 2nd, 6 for
3rd, 4 for 4th, 2 for 5th, and 1 for 6th). Even though they were seeded 5th
and 8th, Ravi and Lincoln had great days and finished in 2nd and 4th bettering
all expectations. Ravi had 3 personal bests and another season best in the 5
event Pentathlon for a great score of 3214. Lincoln also had 3 personal bests
and 1 season best as he held off a competitor from UMass/Boston for 4th and
came within 1 second in the 1000 meter run of catching the 3rd place
competitor.

Saturday, the magic was still in the air for MIT as John Wallberg 'G, led
things off with a win in the 35 lb. Weight Throw. John bettered a field in
which the first 10 places all qualified for the National Championships. Tech
was also represented by Mike Butville '98 and Jason Dailey '99. Mike improved
his national qualifying mark to 51-04 1/4, but missed scoring by 3 places.
Jason tied his personal best of 46-1.

About the same time the Long Jump was being contested at the other end of the
infield. Morio Alexander 'G, suffering from a bad ankle as well as a tender
hamstring did not fair well, but Sastry again came through with a good jump
and placed 6th.

On the track, the trials in the shorter events were taking place. In the 55
High Hurdles, Sastry and Bonner were again the stars, both making the finals.
In the finals the competition was tough, but both ran personal bests for the
2nd day in a row and yet only placed 5th and 7th, .16 and .20 out of first.

In the 55 Meter Dash Trials, Sandholm ran the fastest time even though he
eased up at 40 meters when he felt his hamstring go. At this time he had to
scratch from both the finals of the 55 and the 200 Meters.

This is when the MIT Team showed their real character. Coach Halston Taylor
said that most of the team came up to him and asked if Matt was going to run
in the rest of the meet. Knowing that Matt was the team's big point man along
with Wallberg, Coach Taylor did not know how the team would react to the idea
of losing so many points. Instead of giving up and just thinking of
themselves, the team responded in a way that left their coach very proud, they
competed. If anything, they seemed even more determined to win the meet.

In the 600 Meter Run, Edgar Ngwenya 'G ran an intelligent race in the trials
and finished 3rd with a personal best of 1:24.59 In the finals, Edgar had the
most amazing finish that many at the track had ever seen. Edgar took over 3rd
just before the final turn, but lost it going into the straightway. Fighting
with everything he had, Edgar could not quite pull ahead, then with less than
a meter to go, Edgar surged ahead as if he were pushed from behind, but he
wasn't.

Co-Captain, Dan Helgesen '97, sick most of the week, pulled it together long
enough to run a personal best of 1:56.31 to earn 4th place in a very fast race
in which the first three finishers all qualified for Nationals. Dan only
missed qualifying by less than 1 second.

Joel Ford '98 ran a very strategic race and took the lead with 400 meters to
go. This may have been a little to soon. Joel began to tighten up in the last
150 meters and 3 runners passed him, leaving him in 4th with a season best of
2:33.82.

In the 1500 Meter Run, Leif Seed '99 represented MIT and also ran a personal
best with a time of 4:02.17. Leif was up against some very good competition
including an All-America runner from Amherst College, who ran away right from
the start. Leif and two others went with him, but could not catch him and
battled for the next 3 spots. Leif did not have enough to keep up, but held on
for 4th.

The 3000 Meter Run brought the home crowd to their feet as Mike Parkins '99
ran the perfect race to win in 8:37.36. Mike was ranked 3rd going into the
race, but over 14 seconds behind the leader. However, Mike said earlier in the
week that he was not worried about what the others had done prior to the race,
he would be ready. Ready he was. Mike ran right behind the fast pace set by
the 2 Brandeis runners until their was 2 laps to go. At that time Mike
sprinted around and away from the two. With 100 meters to go the Brandeis
runners made a charge, but Mike put it in yet another gear to hold both off
and significantly quieted the Brandeis crowd seated near the MIT team. Mike's
last 200 meters was in 30 seconds.

Ethan Crain's freshman record in the 5000 went down to Chris McGuire as Chris
ran a stoic race. All of his splits were between 73 and 75 seconds. He came
through the mile in 4:53 and 2 mile in 9:46. The pace stayed consistent and so
did Chris as he held on for 3rd in a new freshman record of 15:16.33.

Going back to the field events, the Pole Vault began in a very ominous way for
MIT. Mike DeMassa, one of three vaulters from MIT who qualified for the
competition, dislocated his elbow during warm-ups. As the vault progressed,
the Tech vaulters were hanging tough, but so were the other vaulters. After
14-0 there were still 7 vaulters in the competition and Tech had two of them.
Andrew Jamieson '99, went out trying to make 14-6 and missed placing by one
position. Dafe Ogagan '97, in only his second week of competition for the
season, cleared 14-6 easily along with 3 others. 15-0 proved to be the winning
height as only 1 vaulter made it, and it was not Dafe who ended up 2nd.

In the Triple Jump, Morio showed the type of competitor he is by not dwelling
on his disappointing long jump, and focusing on scoring points in the Triple.
Morio placed 4th with a solid jump of 43-8, and came within an inch of having
a fair high 44' jump.

The Shot Put brought more good news as Wallberg again competed well and
garnered 4th with his second best throw of the season, a 46-5 1/2 effort. Also
setting a personal best, but not placing was Patrick Dannen '98, throwing
43-7.

Going into the relays, Williams was not going to be caught, but Wheaton was
only 3 1/2 points ahead. Coach Taylor knew that Wheaton was favored to win the
1600 Relay, having a seed time that was 8 seconds faster than their closest
opponent. He also knew that MIT's 3200 Relay could win. The problem was making
up the 3 1/2 points in the 1600 and Distance Medley Relays.

In the DMR, MIT got things rolling with a very gutsy effort by some guys who
are not accustomed to being in the spotlight and a very fatigued Ravi Sastry
and Mike Parkins. Sohail Husain '98, led things off with a 3:20 1200 leg, Ravi
followed with a solid 53 quarter. When Martin Suresh '99 received the baton
things looked dismal. However, Martin did not think so as he put MIT back into
contention with at 2:01 leg. Parkins took over, less than 30 minutes after his
winning 3000 effort, and held onto 6th place and 1 point. "Mike never
questioned running the race, he just did what had to be done," said Coach
Taylor.

The 1600 Relay unit had not run very fast all season and in fact had to run in
the 2nd and slower section of the race. The team of Brad Geilfuss 'G, Lincoln
Bonner, John Kim '98, and Neal Karchem '99 all ran 53 second quarters, but ran
a season best 3:32.61 and also placed 6th, beating 2 teams in the faster
section. The key here was that Wheaton only placed 2nd, as Williams won the
event. This left MIT down by 9 1/2.

The final race of the meet was the 3200 Meter Relay. MIT had not run a best
team in this event all season, but was prepared to do so now. The plan was
simple, the Engineers had to win in order to place 2nd in the meet. Ngwenya
led things off with a 2:02 leg, putting MIT a little behind the leader. Seed
took over and after 600 meters opened up a large 20 meter margin, running a
1:58 800. Next up was Ford who went out very fast at 55 for the quarter. Joel
held on and even opened up a larger lead with a 2:00 leg. Helgesen took over
with a 40 meter lead and never looked back, running a 1:59 anchor. The
victorious relay had scored the 10 points and pushed the Engineers ahead of
Wheaton for 2nd place.

Next up for MIT Track and Field will be the All New England Championships at
BU on the 21st and 22nd. Many individuals will try to compete in their
specialty in order to qualify for Nationals




**MIT LOSES QUAD OPENER TO WILLIAMS  
  
**

This Saturday MIT Men's Track Team embarked to Williamstown to face Williams
College, Norwich University, Middlebury College, and Westfield State College.
This was the first time MIT had competed at Williams for and Indoor Meet since
1989 due to the smaller size of their track.

MIT Teams under Coach Taylor had not lost an Indoor Track Meet at Williams
during his tenure and he hoped that streak would continue. However, Williams
has come a long way since then; winning back to back National Championships in
Men's Cross Country in 1994 and 1995, as well as finishing 2nd in last year's
Outdoor National Championship due to a false start in the 1600 Relay.

On paper the meet looked very close, with both teams suffering the loss of key
competitors for one reason or another. In reality, it was also very close with
Williams squeaking out a 244 to 243 victory.

MIT led for most of the way, winning the early events handily. John Wallberg
'G led the way in the 35 lb. Weight with a toss of 58-02 1/2 and was followed
by Mike Butville '98 with a throw of 49-03 1/2 on his last effort. In the
Mile, MIT ran together in a strategic race and were led to a 1,3,5,and 6
finish by Leif Seed '99 in 4:28.99. Things continued to go Tech's way in the
Long Jump. Morio Alexander 'G (21-4), won the event and led MIT in outscoring
Williams 21-10. At the end of those 3 events MIT was up 64-35. The High
Hurdles were next and was won by Ravi Sastry '98 in a nice time of 8.11, again
leading MIT 16-10 over Williams.

The Engineers lost their first event of the day in the 400. Morio Alexander
jogged over from the Jumps and ran a 53.78, getting edged out by a Williams
runner by .09 seconds. MIT still outscored Williams 17 to 12. With MIT up by
40 points, Williams started to rally. They really came through in the 600
Meters with a great performance by Derek Sasaki-Scanlon (8 events and 50 1/4
points), winning in 1:25.10, and outscored MIT 20-9. The High Jump, also won
by Sasaki-Scanlon went 18-7 for Williams. The lead was now down to 18 points.

The 55 was won by Matt Sandholm '97 in 6.59, but his were the only points for
MIT, as Williams scored 19 points. It was about this time that the Shot Put
was ending, again giving Williams an edge 15-10. With MIT up by only 3 points,
it was time to depend on the strength of the Middle-Distance group. Leif came
back in the 800 for another victory, but the event was a wash 18-18. In the
1000, Joel Ford '98 came back from the Mile and won in 2:38.26, but Williams
took the event 20-15, leading for the first time in the meet.

In the 200, MIT's top sprinters and 400 runners came back. Sandholm got edged
out by the Williams sprinter even though he ran 23.37. MIT's other sprinters
could fare no better, as Williams came away with a 10 point lead. Fortunately,
freshman Chris McGuire came through to win the 5000 and lead the Engineers to
an 18-16 victory in the event. The Triple Jump saw yet another battle between
Sasaki-Scanlon and Alexander. Alexander again came away victorious. In a
pivotal jump Sastry and Jared Miller '98 both passed the 3rd place jumper from
Westfield State on their last attempt, only to have him pass Miller back on
his last attempt.

The relays canceled each other out for the most part. Williams, again led by
Sasaki-Scanlon, won the 1600 Meter Relay. MIT's guns were shot in the sprint
area, but the Middle-Distance guys came through for yet a third time in
winning the DMR. Westfield State stole 3 points from Williams by passing them
in the latter half of the race, putting MIT up by 3 points with only the Pole
Vault to go.

With 5 vaulters remaining and the bar going to 13-6, MIT had 2 jumpers as did
Williams. However, Williams vaulters had personal bests on 15-1 (Sasaki-
Scanlon) and 14-6, whereas MIT's bests were 13-9 and 13-3. Mike DeMassa '97
went out at 13-6 for MIT, but the other jumpers all continued. At this point,
MIT had to hope that the Middlebury jumper would get 2nd or 3rd, with Andrew
Jamieson '99 from MIT getting the other spot. At 14-0 the Middlebury vaulter
went out, leaving the situation that Jamieson had to win the event in order
for MIT to win. At 14-6, 9 inches over his best, Jamieson came through and
cleared it. Of course, so did Sasaki-Scanlon. The other Williams vaulter did
not clear, so now there were two.

At 14-9, Jamieson needed to set yet another personal best in order to lead MIT
to victory. It was not to be. Jamieson had some good attempts, but neither he
nor Sasaki-Scanlon cleared the height. Sasaki-Scanlon won the event on fewer
misses (1-2). It does not get much closer than that.




**MIT DOMINATES 2ND QUAD CUP  
**

**TUFTS AND BATES LACK DEPTH TO PULL OFF VICTORY  
  
**

On Saturday, the 2nd week of Quad Cup competition was hosted and won by MIT
(216) over Bates (146 1/2), who having won their first week's competition was
coming into the meet undefeated. Tufts (160 1/2) having lost to Bates, but
looking strong on paper, looked to be the pre-meet favorite. Others in the
meet were Rhode Island College (19), UMass/Dartmouth (19 1/2), and Worcester
State College (25 1/2).

All teams must send in their performances prior to the meet in order to seed
the events properly. Based on this, Tufts had the superior team by about 10
points. However, since Bates had defeated Tufts the week before, and by a
significant margin, Tech was understandably worried about the outcome.

Quad Meets are scored 9-7-6-5-4-3-2-1 in the individual events and 9-6-3-0 if
four teams are entered in the relays (changes slightly if fewer or more
teams). The meet began with Bates looking great in their best event, the 35
lb. Wt. Throw, scoring 2nd, 4th, 6th, and 7th places in an event that saw the
top 5 throwers over 50 feet. John Wallberg won the event, tying his personal
best of 58-02 1/4, but that was it for MIT in the scoring of that event.

MIT ruled the Long Jump and Pole Vault, outscoring Bates 38 to 18 and Tufts 38
to 12. Even though MIT won neither event, the Tech competitors came through
with solid performances. The other jumps (Triple and High) did not go so well.
Tech scored 9 points in the High Jump and that was actually a big plus, as
they had planned on only scoring 4 or 5. Leif Seed '99, came back after the
1500 Meters and nailed 5-10 to claim 4th, while Ravi Sastry '98, garnered 5th,
also jumping 5-10. In the Triple, Morio Alexander 'G finished off a great day,
(2nd-Long Jump, 3rd-400, 6th-200) with a season best effort on his last jump
to fall 1/4" shy of first place. Sastry scored the only other points for MIT,
winning 8th place.

After looking good in the trials of the 55 Meter Dash by qualifying all 4
runners for the finals, and running two of the fastest times in the Hurdle
Trials, MIT had a poor showing in the 1500. "We got crushed at the start,"
said Coach Halston Taylor. Indeed, the Engineers fell into the back of the
pack while a freshman from Bates took control of the race. Leif Seed gave
chase, but had to work too hard getting up to the front, and ran out of gas
near the end. MIT still outscored their opponents in the race, but were hoping
for a few more and a more competitive effort.

In the 55 Meter High Hurdles, fatigued runners Sastry and Lincoln Bonner '97
made a valiant effort but finished 2nd and 3rd respectively behind a Tufts
runner. Bonner ran a personal best of 8.18 seconds in his effort. Both Sastry
and Bonner were also in the Long Jump, High Jump, and Dash. In addition,
Sastry still had the Triple Jump to come and Bonner the 200 Meter.

The 400 and 600 provided great efforts for MIT, but a lack of depth in these
events hurt the overall effort. Brad Geilfuss 'G joined Alexander in scoring
in the 400 with a 4th place finish. In the 600 Meter, Edgar Ngwenya 'G ran a
great race, finishing in 1:25.51, 2 tenths out of 1st. Neal Karchem '99,
scored the only other Tech point with a 7th place finish. Those 2 events
provided Tufts with a 9 point edge and Bates a 3 point difference over MIT in
just those events.

From that point on, MIT competed very well as a team. In the Dash, Matt
Sandholm '97 won easily in 6.68. MIT also placed 4th, 7th, and 8th. Tech then
scored a total of 29 points in the 800 and 1000 Meter Runs, getting great
efforts out of Dan Helgesen '97, Leif Seed, Joel Ford '98, Sohail Husain '98,
Martin Suresh "99, and Gabe White '00.

The 200 Meter event secured the team victory for MIT. Sandholm again won
easily and Bonner ran a great time of 23.85 for a personal best to get 2nd
place. Geilfuss placed 4th and Alexander 6th to give MIT 24 points in just
this event.

Remaining were the Shot Put and the relays. Wallberg rallied for a personal
best in the Shot Put, throwing 47-0 1/4 for 2nd place and got unexpected
backup from Patrick Dannen '98 for 6th and George Torres '99 for 7th place.
The relays were a moot issue, but Coach Taylor had the star middle-distance
runners get together to win the 1600 Relay in a season best time of 3:32.9.
They need a good seed time to get into the fast section of the upcoming New
England Division III Championships, which will be hosted by MIT on February 14
and 15.

Next week, MIT heads to Maine to compete with Bowdoin, and Norwich at Bates.
Bowdoin's involvement may be more of a hindrance to MIT and a help to Bates
than Tufts was.




**MEN'S TRACK FINISHES 11-1  
  
**

MIT Men's Track and Field Team traveled to Bates College this past Saturday to
finish their regular season. MIT won the meet with 246 1/2 points to Bates
College's 183 1/2, Bowdoin College's 132, and Norwich University's 22.

The last of the Quad Cup Meets would determine the final place of teams in the
league. Going into the meet MIT was 8-1. All other teams had at least 2 losses
except Williams, who beat MIT by 1 point, 2 weeks earlier. For three out of
the four years that the Quad Cup has been in existence, MIT finished 2nd to
Williams with 1 loss.

Tech did not look particularly good in their performances. Perhaps having
already defeated Bates the week before prevented the team from responding as
well as Coach Halston Taylor would have liked. "At this time of the season you
would like to think that the team is preparing for the championships both
physically and mentally. While there were some good performances, the guys we
will need to count on in the Division III Championships in two weeks, did not
perform to the level expected."

Right from the start the meet was never in question as the Engineers 22 points
in the Long Jump, and 23 in the High Jump. Even though Tech only scored 13 in
the Mile, the 22 in the High Hurdles, and 21 in the 55 Meter Dash put the meet
away almost as soon as it got started. In fact, the coaches pulled Morio
Alexander 'G from the Triple Jump and allowed only one effort in the Long Jump
(good for 2nd place). Dan Helgesen '97 was ailing and he did not compete at
all. MIT totally backed off in the relays, not competing a Distance Medley
Relay and giving some others an opportunity to run in the 1600 Meter Relay.

MIT only won 6 events, with Matt Sandholm '97 the only double winner (55 Meter
6.69, 200 Meter 23.27).

The Engineers are at home next week, hosting the Quad Cup Invitational, a non-
scoring meet where Quad Cup Teams will try to better their performances in
order to make the Championship standards.




**MEN'S TRACK PERFORMS WELL IN LAST REGULAR SEASON MEET  
**

Next Friday and Saturday the Men's Indoor Track and Field Team will host the
New England Division III Championships. This weekend they hosted an
invitational to allow them to improve their performances in preparation for
those Championships.

After an average showing last week, the Engineers wanted to show themselves
and their competition that they were indeed among the favorites for the New
England Division III Title.

The team had their best outing of the season in this non-scoring meet with
numerous team members achieving personal and season bests. Matt Sandholm '97
continued his perfect season in the 55 Meter Dash, equaling his season best
time of 6.59 and improving his season best in the 200 with a 23.20
performance.

In the 400 Meters, all four Tech performers achieved season bests. Edgar
Ngwenya 'G ran 53.46, John Kim '98 ran 53.81, Neal Karchem '99 ran 54.02, and
Brian Banaszak ran 56.99.

Martin Suresh '99 has been improving all season, and continued in the 600
Meters with a PR of 1:27.35.

Dan Helgesen '97 knew that if he wanted to get in the fast section of next
weekend's 800 Meters, he was going to have to run much faster than his best of
1:59. This he did with a 1:57.36 winning effort.

In the 1000 Meters, Joel Ford '98 was in the same position as Helgesen, and
responded equally as well with a 2:34.3. Also getting a PR in the 1000 was Ray
Molnar '00, running 2:47.3.

In the 1500 all 6 runners had best performances. Leif Seed '99 4:03.48, Mike
Parkins '99 4:07.31, Chris McGuire '00 4:09.38, Gabe White '00 4:21.30, Kaoru
Aou '00 4:31.79, and Stanley Hu '00 4:41.19 showed that MIT has little to
worry about in the near future as far as the 1500 is concerned.

In the Triple Jump, Morio Alexander 'G had a season best of 43-11 1/4, just
missing a 45 foot jump on his next to last attempt.

In the Pole Vault, Dafe Ogagan '97 competed for the first time this season,
qualifying for next weekend's Championship with a vault of 12-09. Setting a PR
in the vault was freshman Matt Potts with a 12-3 effort.

The 35 lb. Weight Throw was another event where MIT had great success as 4 of
the throwers had all time bests. Mike Butville '98 led the way with a
Provisional National Qualifying Mark of 50-04 3/4, Jason Dailey '99 followed
with a 46-1 effort. George Torres '99 improved for the 2nd week in succession
by throwing 42-5 1/4. Having a huge personal best was Brian Wong '99, throwing
39-5 to close out his season.

In the Shot Put, Patrick Dannen '98 had a great series and ended up throwing a
PR of 42-9 1/4. Patrick's mark qualifies him for next week's Championships.

Next Friday things get underway with the Pentathlon at 12:00. On Saturday the
remaining events are contested beginning at 11:00 and ending around 4:00.


**ALUMNI OVERWHELM VARSITY ** The Alumni showed up in unexpected force (24
members) to overwhelm the varsity 66 to 56 this past Saturday. Once again Bill
Singhose '90 led the way both in points (21) and rounding up the best Alumni
Team yet. The meet began as usual with a very exciting 35 lb. Weight Throw.
John Wallberg 'G, returned from his internship on Wednesday and wasted no time
qualifying for Nationals with a throw of 53-7 3/4 on his last effort to
surpass his former coach John-Paul Clarke '91. Chris Masalsky '91 showed that
you do not need to practice to throw your best as he threw 48-11 1/4 for 3rd
place. The Long Jump was less eventful as Bill easily outdistanced the field
with a 22-5 1/4 effort. Morio Alexander 'G had a indoor personal best with
21-0 for second. Kevin Scannell '91 was a little off his best, but still got
third with a jump of 20-9. The High Jump could have been a sweep for the
Alumni, but Singhose decided to take it easy on the Varsity and let Andy
Ugarov '95, and James Kirtley '94 take 1st and 2nd respectively with jumps of
6-2 and 6-0. Fresh off the injured list, Ravi Sastry '98 placed third with
5-10. The Shot Put was hotly contested right to the end when Singhose threw a
"huge" personal best of 46-5 3/4 to surpass Chris Masalsky's personal best of
45-10 1/2. Wallberg re-discovered his technique on his 5th throw to pass
Clarke for third. Scannell showed his former form by winning the Triple Jump
with a leap of 45-5. He was followed closely by Singhose with 44-4. Alexander
again prevented an Alumni sweep with a jump of 42-0 1/4. In the Pole Vault,
the matchup between Singhose and Dafe Ogagan '97 never materialized due to
Ogagan being injured and Singhose pulling a hamstring in the early part of the
400 meters. Fortunately for Bill he had at least gotten in a successful
attempt at 13-0 to secure 2nd place. First place was garnered by Andrew
Jamieson '99 at 13-6. Sam Sidiqi jumped to 1 foot personal best with a 12-6
effort for 3rd place. As usual, the running events offered a little more
success for the Varsity. Matt Sandholm showed that he is almost back with a
6.71 victory in the 55 dash. Mark Dunzo '91 demonstrated that he could still
turn them over as he ran 6.81 for 2nd. He was followed closely by Akin Aina
'96 in 6.82. In the High Hurdles, Singhose still reigned supreme, easily
taking Sastry in 7.7 to 8.1. Sherrett Walker '93 edged out Dave Ratliff '99
for third in 9.0 The 200 meters was the 2nd to last event and was the last
chance for the Varsity to pull the meet out. The Varsity needed 1st and 2nd to
have a realistic chance with the 5000 and 800 relay remaining. However, Aina
ran a great race, almost edging Sandholm for 1st (23.58 to 23.78). Marlon
Osbourne '98 was 3rd in 24.15. The 400 meters saw a Varsity sweep thanks to
Singhose pulling up in the 1st turn. Osbourne, Brad Geilfuss 'G, and Neal
Karchem '99 ran 1, 2, 3 with times of 53.84, 54.03, and 54.48. In the 800
meters the best race of the day developed as Dan Helgesen '97 was determined
to succeed in taking down Ethan Crain '95. After having failed in the 1500
earlier, Dan tried a new tactic. He stayed back in the early part of the race
and let his teammates do the work. Edgar Ngwenya 'G took the early pace (28,
59) until Crain sprinted to the front. Joel Ford '98 took off after Crain and
passed him with 300 meters to go. Helgesen then came out of nowhere and never
looked back. Helgesen ran 1:59.84 to Crain's 1:59.97. Ford followed closely
with a 2:00.91. As already mentioned, Crain showed no mercy in the 1500.
Letting Leif Seed '99 and Helgesen do the work in the early going, Ethan took
the lead with 200 meters to go. Leif did not respond soon enough and Dan was
out of it until the last 50 meters. Ethan ran 4:02.75 to Leif's 4:04.77 and
Dan's 4:05.58. In the 5000 meters, freshman Chris McGuire missed Ethan Crain's
freshman record by 3 tenths of a second in his 5000 debut. McGuire, Terry
McNatt '87, and Jesse Darley '95 formed a tight pack for most of the race.
Terry pulled away with about 3/4 of a mile to go. McGuire ran a tough race.
Even though he was in a lot of pain he maintained his pace for a 15:27.42 3rd
place finish. Terry won in 15:18.39 with Jesse close behind in 15:20.35. The
800 Relay was a formality, but nevertheless, both teams put forth a great
effort. The Alumni brought Ayisi Makatiani out of hiding as a surprise
entrant, but that was not enough as the Varsity easily pulled away with a time
of 1:36.76. After the meet, both teams gathered at Coach Taylor's for some
snacks, refreshments, and good times. A good time was had by all, and the old-
timers walked away with pride intact. All those who competed are listed below.
Brian Moore and Bobb White were in attendance, but did not compete. Akin Aina
Anton Briefer Jay Chiang John-Paul Clarke Doug Cornwall Ethan Crain Jesse
Darley Mark Dunzo Rod Hinman Hung Hoang Gordy Holterman Glenn Hopkins Malik
King James Kirtley Chris Masalsky Elliott Mason Terry McNatt Kevin Scannell
Arnold Seto Isiah Shalom Bill Singhose Andy Ugarov Sherrett Walker Bing Wang
**MIT COMPETES WELL AT BEAVER RELAYS ** MIT's post holiday competition got
underway on January 11th with an Invitational/Relay Meet. Participating
colleges were Tufts, Coast Guard, Westfield State, Umass/Boston and of course
MIT. The meet was non-scoring, but very competitive. MIT had a very good
showing in the meet, garnering first place in 8 out of 17 events. The winners
were; Matt Sandholm '97 in both the 55 and 200 Meter Dashes with times of 6.66
and 23.45 respectively, Mike Parkins '99 in the 3000 Meters with a time of
9:01.43, the 1600 Meter Relay Team of Morio Alexander 'G, Brad Geilfuss 'G,
Edgar Ngwenya 'G, and John Kim '98 with a time of 3:34. 98, the Distance
Medley Relay Team (1200, 400, 800, 1600 meters) of Chris McGuire '00, Lincoln
Bonner '97, Joel Ford '98, and Dan Helgesen '97 with a time of 10:57.50, John
Wallberg in the 35 Lb. Wt. with a throw of 52-09 1/4, Alexander in the Triple
Jump with a leap of 43-03 1/4, and Andrew Jamieson in the Pole Vault with a
jump of 13-09. It was a nice meet to shake out the cobwebs from the Holiday
layoff. A number of athletes realized that they needed to get in shape and
meet ready, but overall the athletes looked like they are preparing for a
successful season. Next week begins the 3 week quad-cup series. MIT travels to
Williams for the first time since 1989. During the Coach Taylor era, MIT has
met Williams 14 times indoors in non-championship meets. MIT has won 8 of
those, but has not defeated Williams since 1991. The winner of this meet has
gone on to win the New England Division III Championships in 10 of the 14
years. **Men's Track Gains Experience at IC4As ** The Men's Track Team Members
who qualified for the IC4As did pretty well this weekend at Princeton. The
IC4A Championships are the oldest and most prestigious championship in the
United States. It is primarily a Division I Conference, but other division
Institutions can join. To qualify for this meet is quite an achievement at our
level. To see the standards necessary to qualify for the meet look up this
URL: . John Wallberg 'G, started things off in the Weight Throw. After some
good warm-ups, John started okay with 57-7 3/4 effort. Needing only 60' to
make finals, we both thought he would be there. However, on his next two
throws he stepped wide and was out of position, making his first throw his
best one. John finished 12th overall. Joel Ford '98, was up next in the 1000.
He was seeded 19th out of 25, but finished 15th with an even split 2:30.35
effort. Joel had to quickly get his mind off of this race and concentrate on
his next one in less than 2 hours, the 3200 Relay. Last, was the relay. The
relay team qualified for this meet with a 7:44.40 effort the week before at
Boston University's very fast banked track. The goal was to make the finals,
which historically takes about a 7:40 effort. Dan Helgesen '97, led things
off, staying competitive, and running a much better race than the week before
with a 1:57.6 first leg. Leif Seed '99, was next and ran a great leg, taking
off after the competition in splits of 26, 54, and 1:23 to finish in 1:54.0.
Edgar Ngwenya 'G, began the leg competitively with splits of 27, 56, and 1:26,
but faded badly in the last 200 to a 2:00.2, putting the team out of any
chance to make the finals. Joel ran as if he were unaffected by the team's
position or his previous race, and ran a very competitive 1:56.6. John will be
going on to Nationals this Thursday to compete on Friday at the University of
Wisconsin-Oshkosh. **WALLBERG EARNS 5TH ALL-AMERICA AWARD, 1ST NATIONAL
CHAMPIONSHIP ** The Men's Indoor Track and Field Team had two qualifiers for
the NCAA Division III Indoor Track and Field Championships held at the
University of Wisconsin - Oshkosh. However, only John Wallberg 'G made it in.
Mike Butville '98, had qualified provisionally in the 35 Lb. Weight Throw, the
same event as John, but did not get in. John had the best mark (60-02)
entering the competition, leading the field by nearly 2 feet. The competition
was set up so that there would be two flights (one of 6, and one of 7), each
participant receiving 3 throws, with the best eight making the final and an
opportunity for 3 more throws. John was scheduled to throw in the second
flight. The first flight did not show much. The second seeded thrower did not
throw well and did not even make the finals. The best throw coming out of the
first flight was 54-3. John did not begin well. A slow circle, combined with
John's late step-in led to a sub par 55-10 throw in the trials. This not only
gave others hope, but put John in second behind a Bate's thrower with 56-4.
After correcting the technique problem during the ensuing warm-up period, John
led off his final's throws with a 59-4 effort. No one got any closer, and John
won by 3 feet. On his last two throws, John attempted to go for the MIT Record
of 61-4, but it was not to be. John finished his MIT career with the Freshman
Records in both the Weight and Hammer, as well as the Varsity Record in the
Hammer. He made the National Championships all but his freshman year indoors.
He finished 6th Indoors his Sophomore year for his first All-America Award.
His Junior year he was 4th Indoors and 3rd Outdoors. His Senior year, John
red-shirted his Indoor Season, but took 2nd Outdoors. **MIT FINISHES 2ND IN
CHAMPIONSHIPS ** MIT finished 2nd to Williams College this weekend in the New
England Division III Championships held at MIT. Once again Williams College
was able to pull out the victory over MIT and 25 other teams with a score of
99 points to 87 to MIT. Wheaton College followed very closely behind with 86
1/2 points for third. The Engineers did as well as could possibly have been
expected, getting personal or seasonal bests from 12 of 16 performers in
individual events. Most of this occurred after Matt Sandholm '97 pulled his
hamstring in the 55 Meter Dash Trials. Matt was expected to not only score at
least 12 points, but push back the scores from Williams and Wheaton in those
events. Going into the meet Tech was seeded to get 4th behind Wheaton,
Williams, and Brandeis University. The meet began on Friday at noon with the
Pentathlon. MIT hoped to get 10 points out of the event with Ravi Sastry '98
and Lincoln Bonner '97 both entered in the event (points are awarded with 10
for 1st, 8 for 2nd, 6 for 3rd, 4 for 4th, 2 for 5th, and 1 for 6th). Even
though they were seeded 5th and 8th, Ravi and Lincoln had great days and
finished in 2nd and 4th bettering all expectations. Ravi had 3 personal bests
and another season best in the 5 event Pentathlon for a great score of 3214.
Lincoln also had 3 personal bests and 1 season best as he held off a
competitor from UMass/Boston for 4th and came within 1 second in the 1000
meter run of catching the 3rd place competitor. Saturday, the magic was still
in the air for MIT as John Wallberg 'G, led things off with a win in the 35
lb. Weight Throw. John bettered a field in which the first 10 places all
qualified for the National Championships. Tech was also represented by Mike
Butville '98 and Jason Dailey '99. Mike improved his national qualifying mark
to 51-04 1/4, but missed scoring by 3 places. Jason tied his personal best of
46-1. About the same time the Long Jump was being contested at the other end
of the infield. Morio Alexander 'G, suffering from a bad ankle as well as a
tender hamstring did not fair well, but Sastry again came through with a good
jump and placed 6th. On the track, the trials in the shorter events were
taking place. In the 55 High Hurdles, Sastry and Bonner were again the stars,
both making the finals. In the finals the competition was tough, but both ran
personal bests for the 2nd day in a row and yet only placed 5th and 7th, .16
and .20 out of first. In the 55 Meter Dash Trials, Sandholm ran the fastest
time even though he eased up at 40 meters when he felt his hamstring go. At
this time he had to scratch from both the finals of the 55 and the 200 Meters.
This is when the MIT Team showed their real character. Coach Halston Taylor
said that most of the team came up to him and asked if Matt was going to run
in the rest of the meet. Knowing that Matt was the team's big point man along
with Wallberg, Coach Taylor did not know how the team would react to the idea
of losing so many points. Instead of giving up and just thinking of
themselves, the team responded in a way that left their coach very proud, they
competed. If anything, they seemed even more determined to win the meet. In
the 600 Meter Run, Edgar Ngwenya 'G ran an intelligent race in the trials and
finished 3rd with a personal best of 1:24.59 In the finals, Edgar had the most
amazing finish that many at the track had ever seen. Edgar took over 3rd just
before the final turn, but lost it going into the straightway. Fighting with
everything he had, Edgar could not quite pull ahead, then with less than a
meter to go, Edgar surged ahead as if he were pushed from behind, but he
wasn't. Co-Captain, Dan Helgesen '97, sick most of the week, pulled it
together long enough to run a personal best of 1:56.31 to earn 4th place in a
very fast race in which the first three finishers all qualified for Nationals.
Dan only missed qualifying by less than 1 second. Joel Ford '98 ran a very
strategic race and took the lead with 400 meters to go. This may have been a
little to soon. Joel began to tighten up in the last 150 meters and 3 runners
passed him, leaving him in 4th with a season best of 2:33.82. In the 1500
Meter Run, Leif Seed '99 represented MIT and also ran a personal best with a
time of 4:02.17. Leif was up against some very good competition including an
All-America runner from Amherst College, who ran away right from the start.
Leif and two others went with him, but could not catch him and battled for the
next 3 spots. Leif did not have enough to keep up, but held on for 4th. The
3000 Meter Run brought the home crowd to their feet as Mike Parkins '99 ran
the perfect race to win in 8:37.36. Mike was ranked 3rd going into the race,
but over 14 seconds behind the leader. However, Mike said earlier in the week
that he was not worried about what the others had done prior to the race, he
would be ready. Ready he was. Mike ran right behind the fast pace set by the 2
Brandeis runners until their was 2 laps to go. At that time Mike sprinted
around and away from the two. With 100 meters to go the Brandeis runners made
a charge, but Mike put it in yet another gear to hold both off and
significantly quieted the Brandeis crowd seated near the MIT team. Mike's last
200 meters was in 30 seconds. Ethan Crain's freshman record in the 5000 went
down to Chris McGuire as Chris ran a stoic race. All of his splits were
between 73 and 75 seconds. He came through the mile in 4:53 and 2 mile in
9:46. The pace stayed consistent and so did Chris as he held on for 3rd in a
new freshman record of 15:16.33. Going back to the field events, the Pole
Vault began in a very ominous way for MIT. Mike DeMassa, one of three vaulters
from MIT who qualified for the competition, dislocated his elbow during warm-
ups. As the vault progressed, the Tech vaulters were hanging tough, but so
were the other vaulters. After 14-0 there were still 7 vaulters in the
competition and Tech had two of them. Andrew Jamieson '99, went out trying to
make 14-6 and missed placing by one position. Dafe Ogagan '97, in only his
second week of competition for the season, cleared 14-6 easily along with 3
others. 15-0 proved to be the winning height as only 1 vaulter made it, and it
was not Dafe who ended up 2nd. In the Triple Jump, Morio showed the type of
competitor he is by not dwelling on his disappointing long jump, and focusing
on scoring points in the Triple. Morio placed 4th with a solid jump of 43-8,
and came within an inch of having a fair high 44' jump. The Shot Put brought
more good news as Wallberg again competed well and garnered 4th with his
second best throw of the season, a 46-5 1/2 effort. Also setting a personal
best, but not placing was Patrick Dannen '98, throwing 43-7. Going into the
relays, Williams was not going to be caught, but Wheaton was only 3 1/2 points
ahead. Coach Taylor knew that Wheaton was favored to win the 1600 Relay,
having a seed time that was 8 seconds faster than their closest opponent. He
also knew that MIT's 3200 Relay could win. The problem was making up the 3 1/2
points in the 1600 and Distance Medley Relays. In the DMR, MIT got things
rolling with a very gutsy effort by some guys who are not accustomed to being
in the spotlight and a very fatigued Ravi Sastry and Mike Parkins. Sohail
Husain '98, led things off with a 3:20 1200 leg, Ravi followed with a solid 53
quarter. When Martin Suresh '99 received the baton things looked dismal.
However, Martin did not think so as he put MIT back into contention with at
2:01 leg. Parkins took over, less than 30 minutes after his winning 3000
effort, and held onto 6th place and 1 point. "Mike never questioned running
the race, he just did what had to be done," said Coach Taylor. The 1600 Relay
unit had not run very fast all season and in fact had to run in the 2nd and
slower section of the race. The team of Brad Geilfuss 'G, Lincoln Bonner, John
Kim '98, and Neal Karchem '99 all ran 53 second quarters, but ran a season
best 3:32.61 and also placed 6th, beating 2 teams in the faster section. The
key here was that Wheaton only placed 2nd, as Williams won the event. This
left MIT down by 9 1/2. The final race of the meet was the 3200 Meter Relay.
MIT had not run a best team in this event all season, but was prepared to do
so now. The plan was simple, the Engineers had to win in order to place 2nd in
the meet. Ngwenya led things off with a 2:02 leg, putting MIT a little behind
the leader. Seed took over and after 600 meters opened up a large 20 meter
margin, running a 1:58 800. Next up was Ford who went out very fast at 55 for
the quarter. Joel held on and even opened up a larger lead with a 2:00 leg.
Helgesen took over with a 40 meter lead and never looked back, running a 1:59
anchor. The victorious relay had scored the 10 points and pushed the Engineers
ahead of Wheaton for 2nd place. Next up for MIT Track and Field will be the
All New England Championships at BU on the 21st and 22nd. Many individuals
will try to compete in their specialty in order to qualify for Nationals **MIT
LOSES QUAD OPENER TO WILLIAMS ** This Saturday MIT Men's Track Team embarked
to Williamstown to face Williams College, Norwich University, Middlebury
College, and Westfield State College. This was the first time MIT had competed
at Williams for and Indoor Meet since 1989 due to the smaller size of their
track. MIT Teams under Coach Taylor had not lost an Indoor Track Meet at
Williams during his tenure and he hoped that streak would continue. However,
Williams has come a long way since then; winning back to back National
Championships in Men's Cross Country in 1994 and 1995, as well as finishing
2nd in last year's Outdoor National Championship due to a false start in the
1600 Relay. On paper the meet looked very close, with both teams suffering the
loss of key competitors for one reason or another. In reality, it was also
very close with Williams squeaking out a 244 to 243 victory. MIT led for most
of the way, winning the early events handily. John Wallberg 'G led the way in
the 35 lb. Weight with a toss of 58-02 1/2 and was followed by Mike Butville
'98 with a throw of 49-03 1/2 on his last effort. In the Mile, MIT ran
together in a strategic race and were led to a 1,3,5,and 6 finish by Leif Seed
'99 in 4:28.99. Things continued to go Tech's way in the Long Jump. Morio
Alexander 'G (21-4), won the event and led MIT in outscoring Williams 21-10.
At the end of those 3 events MIT was up 64-35. The High Hurdles were next and
was won by Ravi Sastry '98 in a nice time of 8.11, again leading MIT 16-10
over Williams. The Engineers lost their first event of the day in the 400.
Morio Alexander jogged over from the Jumps and ran a 53.78, getting edged out
by a Williams runner by .09 seconds. MIT still outscored Williams 17 to 12.
With MIT up by 40 points, Williams started to rally. They really came through
in the 600 Meters with a great performance by Derek Sasaki-Scanlon (8 events
and 50 1/4 points), winning in 1:25.10, and outscored MIT 20-9. The High Jump,
also won by Sasaki-Scanlon went 18-7 for Williams. The lead was now down to 18
points. The 55 was won by Matt Sandholm '97 in 6.59, but his were the only
points for MIT, as Williams scored 19 points. It was about this time that the
Shot Put was ending, again giving Williams an edge 15-10. With MIT up by only
3 points, it was time to depend on the strength of the Middle-Distance group.
Leif came back in the 800 for another victory, but the event was a wash 18-18.
In the 1000, Joel Ford '98 came back from the Mile and won in 2:38.26, but
Williams took the event 20-15, leading for the first time in the meet. In the
200, MIT's top sprinters and 400 runners came back. Sandholm got edged out by
the Williams sprinter even though he ran 23.37. MIT's other sprinters could
fare no better, as Williams came away with a 10 point lead. Fortunately,
freshman Chris McGuire came through to win the 5000 and lead the Engineers to
an 18-16 victory in the event. The Triple Jump saw yet another battle between
Sasaki-Scanlon and Alexander. Alexander again came away victorious. In a
pivotal jump Sastry and Jared Miller '98 both passed the 3rd place jumper from
Westfield State on their last attempt, only to have him pass Miller back on
his last attempt. The relays canceled each other out for the most part.
Williams, again led by Sasaki-Scanlon, won the 1600 Meter Relay. MIT's guns
were shot in the sprint area, but the Middle-Distance guys came through for
yet a third time in winning the DMR. Westfield State stole 3 points from
Williams by passing them in the latter half of the race, putting MIT up by 3
points with only the Pole Vault to go. With 5 vaulters remaining and the bar
going to 13-6, MIT had 2 jumpers as did Williams. However, Williams vaulters
had personal bests on 15-1 (Sasaki- Scanlon) and 14-6, whereas MIT's bests
were 13-9 and 13-3. Mike DeMassa '97 went out at 13-6 for MIT, but the other
jumpers all continued. At this point, MIT had to hope that the Middlebury
jumper would get 2nd or 3rd, with Andrew Jamieson '99 from MIT getting the
other spot. At 14-0 the Middlebury vaulter went out, leaving the situation
that Jamieson had to win the event in order for MIT to win. At 14-6, 9 inches
over his best, Jamieson came through and cleared it. Of course, so did Sasaki-
Scanlon. The other Williams vaulter did not clear, so now there were two. At
14-9, Jamieson needed to set yet another personal best in order to lead MIT to
victory. It was not to be. Jamieson had some good attempts, but neither he nor
Sasaki-Scanlon cleared the height. Sasaki-Scanlon won the event on fewer
misses (1-2). It does not get much closer than that. **MIT DOMINATES 2ND QUAD
CUP ** **TUFTS AND BATES LACK DEPTH TO PULL OFF VICTORY ** On Saturday, the
2nd week of Quad Cup competition was hosted and won by MIT (216) over Bates
(146 1/2), who having won their first week's competition was coming into the
meet undefeated. Tufts (160 1/2) having lost to Bates, but looking strong on
paper, looked to be the pre-meet favorite. Others in the meet were Rhode
Island College (19), UMass/Dartmouth (19 1/2), and Worcester State College (25
1/2). All teams must send in their performances prior to the meet in order to
seed the events properly. Based on this, Tufts had the superior team by about
10 points. However, since Bates had defeated Tufts the week before, and by a
significant margin, Tech was understandably worried about the outcome. Quad
Meets are scored 9-7-6-5-4-3-2-1 in the individual events and 9-6-3-0 if four
teams are entered in the relays (changes slightly if fewer or more teams). The
meet began with Bates looking great in their best event, the 35 lb. Wt. Throw,
scoring 2nd, 4th, 6th, and 7th places in an event that saw the top 5 throwers
over 50 feet. John Wallberg won the event, tying his personal best of 58-02
1/4, but that was it for MIT in the scoring of that event. MIT ruled the Long
Jump and Pole Vault, outscoring Bates 38 to 18 and Tufts 38 to 12. Even though
MIT won neither event, the Tech competitors came through with solid
performances. The other jumps (Triple and High) did not go so well. Tech
scored 9 points in the High Jump and that was actually a big plus, as they had
planned on only scoring 4 or 5. Leif Seed '99, came back after the 1500 Meters
and nailed 5-10 to claim 4th, while Ravi Sastry '98, garnered 5th, also
jumping 5-10. In the Triple, Morio Alexander 'G finished off a great day,
(2nd-Long Jump, 3rd-400, 6th-200) with a season best effort on his last jump
to fall 1/4" shy of first place. Sastry scored the only other points for MIT,
winning 8th place. After looking good in the trials of the 55 Meter Dash by
qualifying all 4 runners for the finals, and running two of the fastest times
in the Hurdle Trials, MIT had a poor showing in the 1500. "We got crushed at
the start," said Coach Halston Taylor. Indeed, the Engineers fell into the
back of the pack while a freshman from Bates took control of the race. Leif
Seed gave chase, but had to work too hard getting up to the front, and ran out
of gas near the end. MIT still outscored their opponents in the race, but were
hoping for a few more and a more competitive effort. In the 55 Meter High
Hurdles, fatigued runners Sastry and Lincoln Bonner '97 made a valiant effort
but finished 2nd and 3rd respectively behind a Tufts runner. Bonner ran a
personal best of 8.18 seconds in his effort. Both Sastry and Bonner were also
in the Long Jump, High Jump, and Dash. In addition, Sastry still had the
Triple Jump to come and Bonner the 200 Meter. The 400 and 600 provided great
efforts for MIT, but a lack of depth in these events hurt the overall effort.
Brad Geilfuss 'G joined Alexander in scoring in the 400 with a 4th place
finish. In the 600 Meter, Edgar Ngwenya 'G ran a great race, finishing in
1:25.51, 2 tenths out of 1st. Neal Karchem '99, scored the only other Tech
point with a 7th place finish. Those 2 events provided Tufts with a 9 point
edge and Bates a 3 point difference over MIT in just those events. From that
point on, MIT competed very well as a team. In the Dash, Matt Sandholm '97 won
easily in 6.68. MIT also placed 4th, 7th, and 8th. Tech then scored a total of
29 points in the 800 and 1000 Meter Runs, getting great efforts out of Dan
Helgesen '97, Leif Seed, Joel Ford '98, Sohail Husain '98, Martin Suresh "99,
and Gabe White '00. The 200 Meter event secured the team victory for MIT.
Sandholm again won easily and Bonner ran a great time of 23.85 for a personal
best to get 2nd place. Geilfuss placed 4th and Alexander 6th to give MIT 24
points in just this event. Remaining were the Shot Put and the relays.
Wallberg rallied for a personal best in the Shot Put, throwing 47-0 1/4 for
2nd place and got unexpected backup from Patrick Dannen '98 for 6th and George
Torres '99 for 7th place. The relays were a moot issue, but Coach Taylor had
the star middle-distance runners get together to win the 1600 Relay in a
season best time of 3:32.9. They need a good seed time to get into the fast
section of the upcoming New England Division III Championships, which will be
hosted by MIT on February 14 and 15. Next week, MIT heads to Maine to compete
with Bowdoin, and Norwich at Bates. Bowdoin's involvement may be more of a
hindrance to MIT and a help to Bates than Tufts was.


