


  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

MEN AND WOMEN OPEN SEASON WITH WIN OVER ALUMNI/AE TEAMS

January 8, 2011

The 2011 version of the MIT Indoor Track and Field team opened competition
with the annual Alumni/ae Meet. Typically, the most competitive regular season
meet of the year for the men, this year's version did not disappoint as the
meet came down to the final three events before the varsity pulled away to win
67-55. The history of the women's program is still pretty recent by comparison
and the improvement of the varsity so dramatic over the past five years that
the alumnae are still not showing up in high numbers. The varsity pulled away
early, winning 104.5 to 16.5.

The "Has-Beens" on the men's side knew they had a chance of winning all six
field events and the sprints and hurdles. The concern was whether or not there
would be enough scoring bodies in the 400-5000 events to give the old guys the
points to pull off the victory. The pair of fairly recent national champions,
Uzoma Orji '06, and Stephen Morton '10, did their jobs, winning the weight
throw, shot put, long jump and triple jump. This gave the Alumni a nice lead
as the scoring awarded the first three places with 5-3-1 points respectively.
In addition to the first places, the alums also earned second place in the
long jump by Thad Wozniak '06, and third place in the triple jump by Obinna
Anyanwu '09. The only surprise in the field events came when Matt Falk '12,
took the victory in the high jump. This made it the first time Craig Mielcarz
'03, lost the event as a varsity athlete or an alumnus. Mielcarz settled for
second place, but promised to be back to regain the title in '12. In the pole
vault, the "Has Beens" made up for the high jump by claiming the top five
places. Nate Ball '05, and Greg Tao '10, gave up on a jump off, tying at 14-07
1/4. Omari Stephens '08, cleared the same height, but placed third.

In the running events, things went as expected in the short events. Zach
Traina '05, returned to his double victory days, claiming first place in both
the 55 and 200 meter dashes. Traina received some help from Morton when he
placed third in the 55 meter dash. Morton discovered what it is like to
compete without practicing for a few months as he failed to score in the 200.
In the 55HH, Stephens showed he can still do more than vault as he stole the
show with his victory. With eight victories under their belt, the alumni had
52 points and only needed 62 to guarantee victory. Unfortunately there just
was not enough strength in the lap events as only Dave Reshef '09, placed for
the Alumni in the remaining events. Reshef earned a second place in the 400.

The varsity claimed the remainder of the points. DJ Ronde '13, won the 400 in
an excellent come from behind victory. Pat Mark '13, took the 800 out, leading
the event wire to wire. In the mile, Stephen Serene '12, took the first 200 in
a ridiculous 29, gave up the lead in the middle of the race before storming
back to claim the victory. In the 5000, the final event before the 4x200
relay, the Alumni needed a second place in order for the meet to come down to
the relay. Try as he might, Eric Khatchadourian '06, was unable to hold onto
the leaders, giving the Varsity another sweep with Dan Harper '12, taking the
victory.

The Alums were going down in a blaze of glory as hamstrings, backs and various
body parts began to give out. Once it was clear they would not be able to win
the meet, the substitutions were entered in 4x200. The varsity made a couple
of substitutions as well, but the end results was still a victory as Josh
Duncavage '13, Mac Gager '14, Babajide Akinronbi '14 and Tyler Singer-Clarke
'14 easily took the victory.

For the women, the Alumnae were relatively few in number. As with the men, the
majority of the Alumnae entries were in the pole vault. However, most of the
points came from the weight throw where Julia Zimmerman '09, and Juls Andren
'10, took advantage of illness and injury on the part of the Varsity, claiming
first and second respectively. Meri Silberstein '95, always ready to compete
earned a third pace in the long jump. Zimmerman also scored a third place in
the triple jump. Also in the field events, Emily Hwang '09, claimed third in
the her specialty, the pole vault and picked up a nice second in the shot put.
Andren also scored in the shot, taking third place. Cat Tweedie '04, tied for
third in the high jump to earn .5 points for the Alumnae.

The only point scored by the Alumnae in the running events was a third place
in the 800 by Silberstein. The alums had no entries in the 55HH, 400 and 5000.
With strong graduating classes in the next two years, and the possibility of
recent grads who are competing for clubs being allowed by their coaches to
compete in this meet, the Alumnae could be in position to take a victory.

Claiming victories for the Varsity were; Amy Magnuson '10, in both the long
jump and triple jump, Brooke Hamilton '14, in the shot put, Karin Fisher '11,
in the pole vault, Kristine Bunker '14, in the high jump, Louise van den
Heuvel '14, in the mile, Portia Jones '12, in the 55, 55HH and 200, Jamie
Simmons '12, in the 400, Olivia Papa '14, in the 800, Tania Morimoto '12, in
the 5000 and Simmons, Megan Bumgarner '14, Bunker and Stephanie Ku '14, in the
4x200.

Competing, but not scoring for the Alumni were; Akin Aina '95 (55, 200),
Patrick Barragan '08 (PV), Chris Bateman '07 (4x200), David Blau '06 (55),
Josh Chartier '06 (PV), Eric Khatchadourian '06 (5000), Terry McNatt '87
(5000), Peter Mulligan '08 (800), Ulzie Rea '07 (400, 4x200), Joe Roy Mayhew
'08, (800), Kevin Scannell '91 (LJ), Justin Schmidt '10 (PV), Nate Sharpe '09
(PV), Sam Sidiqi '99 (200), Andy Ugarov '95 (HJ) and Chris Wong '08 (5000). In
attendance were; Dave Afshartous '89, James Flink '64, Ben Schmeckpeper '05
and Don Shobrys '75.

Competing, but not scoring for the Alumnae were; Adrienne Bolger '09 (mile),
Adeline Kuo '02 (55, 200), Margaret Leibovic '10 (55, 200) and Alisha Schor
'07 (mile). In attendance were; Chi-An Emhoff '01, Elizabeth Labuz '09 and
Jacqui Wentz '10.

MIT travels to Lewiston, Maine on the 15th to compete in a tri-meet against
host Bates College and visiting Colby College.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**MIT IMPROVES NCAA QUALIFYING MARKS AT ECAC DIVISION III CHAMPIONSHIP**

March 4-5, 2011

With a number of NCAA provisionally qualified athletes on the bubble for
making Nationals, MIT joined most of the other colleges in the North East to
see if those marks could be improved at the ECAC Division III Indoor Track and
Field Championship, hosted by New York University at the Armory in New York
City.

MIT opened up with the women's pole vault where Karin Fisher '11, Hazel Briner
'11 and Lauren Kuntz '13, were all trying to improve their personal best.
Kuntz and Briner were able to place seventh and eighth respectively even
though neither set PR's, both jumping 11-6 1/2. Fisher, vaulted exceptionally
well, setting yet another personal best and school record while winning the
event at 13-6 1/4, tied with the second place finisher, Abigail Schaffer of
Moravian for the highest vault in the country for Division III.

On the track, Anna Holt-Gosselin '11, was racing in the slow section of the
5000. Not ready to race fast early in the season, Holt-Gosselin entered the
meet with a meager 18:15.22 although her best ever was from the last time she
was totally healthy, a 17:34 from two years ago. Racing in the slow section,
and needing a sub 17:20 to have any chance at all of making the NCAA field
next week, it was clear that Holt-Gosselin would have to do it by herself and
hope to start lapping runners before the 3200 mark. Knowing she would need 83
second quarters to meet her goal, she was a little excited and ran 80 for the
first 400 and then settled into a series of 82+ quarters to hit 1600 splits of
5:28 and 11:02. At the halfway point she was able to start lapping runners,
giving her further motivation to continue on pace. With 800 to go she had
already lapped the field and proceeded to go after lapping runners again. Her
third 1600 was 5:31 and she closed the final 200 in 36 seconds to run
17:09.93. Although that mark put her fourth on the NCAA performance list, four
in the fast section ran faster, which moved Holt-Gosselin to eighth on the
NCAA list and fifth in placing for the ECAC 5K.

Nate Peterson '12, was entering the pole vault needing at least a 15-11 vault
to have a chance at making Nationals next weekend. After steadily improving
the past three weeks it seemed Peterson was ready. During the event, he was
clean through 15-11. Knowing he was probably safe in making Nationals did not
hold him back as he also cleared 16-5 1/4 and had a good attempt at the next
height. Peterson's performance netted him third place in the event.

On day two, MIT started with the finals of the women's 55HH. The Engineers
were represented by Portia Jones '12 and Amy Magnuson 'G, both of whom had
qualified from the trials on Friday with times of 8.42 and 8.46 respectively.
In the finals, both got out well out of the blocks. Jones was efficient on the
hurdles and in between as she earned the victory in a personal best of 8.21.
Magnuson, hampered by possible micro tears in her hamstring, placed fourth in
8.47.

The next event was the Mile Run. Louise van den Heuvel '14, was going to try
to build on her 3:37 1200 from the weekend before, but a severe cold got the
best of her, preventing her from competing. In the men's race, Kyle Hannon
'13, continued to be bothered by an injury to his foot, which tends to flare
up on race days. After a nice start he failed to respond to the perfect pace,
taking himself out of the race mentally and finishing in a disappointing 4:35.
Both will be in the DMR next week at Nationals and will hope for much better
results.

In the 400, Jamie Simmons '12, and Martha Gross '12 took to the oval for Tech.
Gross ran first, seeming to decide to let others set the pace, giving her a
slow split of 28.0 at the 200, and in last place in her section. Managing to
pass a couple of runners in the final 100 enabled her to run 59.71, a season
best. Simmons got out a little better, but still allowed others to get the
break, forcing her to run from behind. Her final time of 58.48 earned her
sixth place. Jake Jurewicz '14, represented the men's team. The tall, long
legged Jurewicz had a little difficulty running full speed even with the
banked track. Unable to get even close to the break with his first lap of
23.6, Jurewicz had to work from behind and was only able to produce a 51.34.

In the women's Long Jump, Jackie Brew was hoping to get into the 18' range,
but continued to have problems raising her hips on the board and over
rotating. She managed to make the finals and place eighth at 17-2 3/4.

The men's Weight Throw was a disaster. Ken Cooper '13, and CK Umachi '12,
ranked 11th and 12th in Division III with throws of 61-2 and 61-0, were hoping
to compete well for the victory and in the process make it more of a guarantee
that they make the National field. Both had control problems and were
incapable of hitting their position. Neither made the finals. Cooper threw
54-6 and Umachi 53-9.

The women's 4x400 Relay was the final event for MIT and one they were not only
hoping to win, but to run at least 3:51. Jamie Simmons ran an excellent first
leg, but as she was coming in for the handoff, the officials moved MIT into
lane one even though Wheaton College had pulled ahead. It was obvious Wheaton
would hand off first so Simmons backed off in order to get a clean handoff.
Hazel Briner got nervous and never turned to sprint, instead using an open
handoff, moving with her back to the direction she was going. Just as she was
about to receive the baton she tripped on the railing and missed the baton.
She had to stop and go back and get it, losing significant time, perhaps two
to three seconds. Briner proceeded to make up some ground, getting the team
back into second place with her 58.4 split. Martha Gross took the baton and
again got out too casually, running 28.1 for the first 200. She lost more
ground to leading Wheaton as she split 59.1. Portia Jones received the baton
about 25-30 meters in arrears. She proceeded to run 25.8 to bring herself
within five meters of Wheaton's anchor and continued to move past her with 100
meters to go. Jones settled just a little as she went past, giving the Wheaton
runner hope. The final 30 meters were dead even until Jones out leaned her
opponent at the line, good for a 56.1 split and an overall time of 3:53.25.

Next week, the Engineers leave on Wednesday for Capital University, just
outside of Columbus, Ohio. The women are hoping to make it three NCAA
Championships in a row reaching the podium, an honor given the top four teams.
Both last year's outdoor team and this year's cross country team finished
third at Nationals. For the men, it will be the first visit for all but Kyle
Hannon, so bettering their entering seed will be a worthy goal.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**MIT STARTS SEASON WITH VICTORIES OVER BATES AND COLBY TO GO 2-0**

January 15, 2011

The MIT Engineers Track and Field teams traveled to Lewiston, Maine on
Saturday to compete against host Bates College and Colby College. Both
opponents typically give Tech challenges, but this particular year, MIT just
had too much quality and quantity for the Bobcats and White Mules. MIT pulled
ahead early and kept the momentum going, winning easily. The men won seven of
the 17 events, scoring 192 points to 116 for Bates and 45 for Colby. The women
did even better, winning 13 of 18 events, scoring 216.5 to 85.5 for Bates and
76 for Colby.

Ken Cooper '13, led the way for the Engineers, although he placed second in
both the 35 lb. Weight Throw and Shot Put. His 59- 2 1/4 toss in the weight
earned him a solid NCAA provisional mark for the indoor championship. His 50-0
shot put made him only the seventh MIT track and field athlete to ever throw
the indoor shot over 50'.

The meet scored six places per event, assigning 7 points to first, with the
remaining places earning 5-4-3-2-1 points respectively, and no team could
score more than four places in an event. MIT earned the maximum amount of
scoring places in five events. While they did not win the pole vault, Nathan
Peterson '12, led Tech to places 2-3-5-6 with his 14-1 1/4 vault. In the
Triple Jump, Mattias Flander '11, led the way to a sweep of the top four
places with his 44-0 3/4 leap. Brent Johnson '14, continued to shine as a
first year hurdler with his 8.40 performance, leading a 3-4-5-6 performance in
the 55HH. David Way '13, took control of the 600 and led wire to wire in
1:26.05 to lead Tech to a 1-2-3-4 sweep. In the Mile Run, Logan Trimble '13,
had a major breakthrough, winning in 4:19.91 to lead MIT to a 1-3-4-5-6
domination of the event.

Additional victories were earned in the High Jump by Matt Falk '12, the 200 by
Tyler Singer-Clarke '14, the 800 by Trimble and the 4x400 team of DJ Ronde
'13, Nick Leonard '11, Mac Gager '14, and Pat Mark '13. In the High Jump, Falk
cleared a personal best of 6-3 1/2 to take the victory away from teammate CK
Umachi '12, who also cleared 6-3 1/2, a PR of his own. In the 200, Singer-
Clarke used lane five to his advantage, taking victory away from teammate Josh
Duncavage '13, 23.25 to 23.45. Trimble earned his second victory with a
dominant 800, although the time was not fast (2:00.43). The 4x400 had modest
splits of 53.1, 54.7, 52.5 and 51.2 to win in 3:31.74.

Karin Fisher '11, led the way in qualifying performances for the women, as she
won the Pole Vault with an NCAA provisional qualifying mark of 12-2. Teammate,
Hazel Briner '11, also qualified provisionally with her 11-7 3/4 vault. Portia
Jones '12, did not qualify for the NCAA Championships, yet, but she did win
three events in convincing fashion. She ran 7.52 in the 55 dash, 8.60 in the
55HH and 26.16 in the 200 to score 21 points.

The Engineers dominated the field events, only losing the throws events. Megan
Bumgarner '14, was not only a surprise winner, but also tied the varsity
record and set the freshman record with her leap of 5-01 3/4 in the High Jump.
She also pulled out a nice victory in the 400 with her 63.76. Briner had a big
day, winning the Long Jump in 16-6 1/2 in addition to a second place PR in the
55HH with her 8.72, a third place in the Shot Put with her toss of 34-0 3/4
and a 62.8 leadoff leg in the 4x400. Jackie Brew '14, won the Triple Jump with
a jump of 34-5 1/2, in addition to setting a freshman record in the 55 Meter
Dash with her 7.57 in the trials, her personal best of 8.83 in the trials of
the 55HH and her third place finish in the 200 with a best of 27.80.

The performances were just as dominant in the running events. In addition to
those mentioned by Jones and Bumgarner, victories were earned in the 600, Mile
Run, 3000 and all three relays. Jamie Simmons '12, led wire to wire in the 600
to win in 1:42.64. Anna Holt-Gosselin '11, led a 1-2-3-4 sweep in the Mile Run
with her 5:19.59 victory. Alina Gatowski '11, led the 3000 from start to
finish to claim a victory in 10:29.67. In the 4x200 Relay, Simmons, Stephanie
Ku '14, Bumgarner '14, and Kristine Bunker '14 ran 1:54.46 to win the event.
The quartet of Briner, Bumgarner, Kirsten Aarsvold '11, and Simmons claimed
the 4x400 victory in 4:16.74 and the Distance Medley Relay team of Olivia Papa
'14, Jackie Konopka '14, Casey O'Brien '14, and Holt-Gosselin ran to first
place in 13:10.08.

Next weekend, MIT travels to Springfield College to run in a nine team
invitational featuring teams from host Springfield, Coast Guard Academy,
Tufts, Wheaton, Ramapo, Smith, Westfield State and UMass Dartmouth. Tech will
give some the weekend off to rest up for a chance to qualify for the NCAA
Championships the week after in a large invitational at Boston University, but
will still hope to win the meet.

RETURN TO INDOOR  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**MIT REMAINS UNDEFEATED, TAKING DOWN WILLIAMS AND MORAVIAN WITH DOMINATING
PERFORMANCES AND ATTITUDE**

February 5, 2011

The women's track & field team from MIT had never defeated Williams College in
a regular season meet, even though they did defeat the Ephs in all three
(indoor, outdoor, xc) New England Division III Championships in 2009 as well
as the past three NCAA Championships. Going into the tri-meet with Williams
and Moravian College, MIT was favored by two points based on the seeds.
Watching the team it was clear MIT wanted this victory. Williams College,
known for their competitiveness, did not seem to have the attitude it takes to
win a meet of this intensity, at least not on this day.

MIT had not been challenged in 2011 and looked forward to bringing their best
effort. On meet day, All America hurdler, Amy Magnuson 'G, felt her hamstring,
that cramped on her earlier in the week, was not ready for competition. This
major loss in the hurdles, and horizontal jumps did not deter the Engineers as
they opened the meet with a bang.

Due to the number of entries, there were trials in the 55 dash and 55HH. In
the hurdle trials, MIT earned five of the eight final qualifying spots led by
Portia Jones '12 with a 8.40 performance. In those trials, Jackie Brew '14,
led fellow freshmen, Jackie Konopka and Megan Bumgarner with personal bests,
8.69, 8.94 and 9.01 respectively. Jones, Brew and Hazel Briner '11, all
returned in the 55 dash trials and all three earned finals spots with Jones
setting a new MIT record of 7.43.

With some of Williams' top runners injured and the emotion missing, MIT took
advantage where able. In the mile run Louise van den Heuvel '14, continued her
winning ways despite the slow pace, crossing the line in 5:13.34. Fellow
freshmen Martina de Geus, Olivia Papa and Andrea Nickerson followed her in
third, fourth and fifth places. Returning from injury, Marie Burkland '13,
claimed the final point scoring place, sixth in 5:27.12.

MIT won nine of 12 running events with Jones and van den Heuvel winning six of
those. Jones was up next in the 55HH final and won comfortably in 8.47. Briner
followed in third with a personal best of 8.67 and Konopka placed fourth in
another PR of 8.91. Bumgarner did not improve but claimed sixth place.

Not having been pushed as yet, Jones stepped to the line for her first 400 of
the year. Running just fast enough to stay ahead, Jones crossed the line in
first with a 60.41 performance. Martha Gross '12, continued her comeback,
placing third in 61.43. Bumgarner responded remarkably well for a freshman
coming back from the hurdles, placing fith in 64.05.

Jamie Simmons '12, needed a fast 600 or risk not getting into the fast section
in the New England Division III Championship in two weeks. Starting to get her
legs back from the hard early season workouts, Simmons took the lead at the
gun, running 30.5 in the first 200 en route to an excellent 1:37.14 victory.
Stephanie Ku '14, and Kirsten Aarsvold '11, both ran season bests to take
third and fourth places.

The 55 dash finals were next. Jones knew she had less than 20 minutes to
recover from the 400 and did a marvelous job of preparing. Running well out of
the blocks, Jones was nevertheless behind until the final 10 meters of the
race where she overtook Williams' Tanasia Hoffler '13, the national champion
in the triple jump, to reset the MIT record with an excellent 7.37 clocking.
Brew lowered her own freshman record to 7.50 as she claimed third place.
Briner matched her personal best with a 7.64 even though she tripped a bit
coming out of the blocks.

In the field events, normally the heart and soul of the Williams team, MIT
held their own despite the absence of Magnuson. In the long jump, Brew set a
freshman record with an excellent 17-5 1/2 leap for second place. She was
supported by Briner in third and Konopka in sixth. In the high jump, Briner
never missed, stopping at 5-2 1/4 with the victory and a new MIT record. MIT
also claimed second, fourth, fifth and a tie for sixth with Bumgarner, Jones,
Diana Zhu '13, and Konopka respectively. In the shot put, freshman Brooke
Hamilton threw 37-3 1/4 to earn second place.

Four of the top six vaulters in the country were entered in the pole vault and
certainly performed in that manner. Karin Fisher '11, lost to Abigail Schaffer
'12, despite her new MIT record and NCAA automatic qualifying performance of
12-9 1/2. Schaffer and Fisher are ranked 1-2 on the NCAA Division III
performance list. Briner placed fourth with a vault of 11-5 3/4 even though
she has the fourth best vault in the country at 12-3 1/2. Jenna Adams, a
freshman for Williams cleared 11-11 3/4 to become the sixth ranked vaulter.

Back on the track, van den Heuvel returned to claim the 800 victory. In an
evenly paced, strategic

race, she came from behind to win in 2:24.76. Also scoring for MIT was Papa
and Emily Kuo '13. In the 1000, de Geus and Nickerson returned to lay claim to
second and third place, the first running event loss for MIT.

In the 200, Jones returned for her final event, again running just fash enough
to win, pulling away in the final twenty meters to win in 26.33. Brew, still
learning how to race the 200, knocked .76 off her best for a third place 26.89
on the tight turns of the indoor track. Simmons ran her first 200 of the year,
clocking 27.12 for fifth place and an indoor personal best.

Anna Holt-Gosselin '11, pulled away from the field in the 3000, running an
excellent last 600 meters for the victory in 10:20.57.

MIT backed off on the relays as the meet was no longer in question. MIT's
women claimed their first victory over Williams in the regular season, far
outscoring their seeds, scoring 185.5 points to Williams 139. Moravian
finished with 42.5 points.

The men's team from MIT has not lost to Williams in the regular season since
2006. With their depth and quality in every event other than the horizontal
jumps it did not seem likely the result would be any different than in recent
years. It appeared that Williams knew they were not going to win, as similar
to the women, just did not seem to bring their usual emotion to the meet.

In the first final, MIT set the tone, claiming three of the top four scoring
places in the mile run. Kyle Hannon '13, dropped a 60 second final 400 to take
the victory in 4:16.90. He was backed by Logan Trimble '13 and Ben Mattocks
'12, in second and fifth respectively.

In the 55HH final, MIT's runners were solid but were not able to defeat the
top two hurdlers from Williams. Nick Leonard '11, led the way for MIT with a
season best of 8.25 for third place. Drew Musacchio '11, and Brent Johnson
'14, claimed fourth and fifth respectively.

Losing Stephen Morton to graduation and with Mattias Flander not quite
returning as yet to last year's form, MIT has struggled in the horizontal
jumps. Flander was able to place fifth in the long jump and fourth in the
triple jump, but those were Tech's only points.

The throwers, MIT's current field event strength, allowed Williams to
outperform them with respect to the seeds coming into the meet. Ken Cooper
'13, won the shot put in 47-4 1/2 and Mitch Kelley '11, laid claim to third
with a throw of 44-10 3/4, but both were nearly three feet off their best. CK
Umachi '12, had a season best of 42-6 for fifth place and Adam Mustafa '11,
also threw a season best of 41-3, good for sixth place. In the 35lb. weight
throw, Cooper did not have a good throw in the trials, putting him in the
position of watching his opponents throw their final effort and not being able
to come back to counter with his own effort. In third place going into the
finals, Cooper took the lead from teammate Umachi on his first throw in the
finals. Cooper added to that lead on his final throw with a toss of 57-9 3/4.
On his final throw, Rusty Cowher of Williams, took the lead at 58-3. Umachi,
the leader going into finals, was unable to pass Cowher, settling for third.
Mustafa had a best of 48-9 for sixth place.

Matt Falk '12, led the way in the vertical jumps, clearing a personal best of
6' 4" to win the high jump, jumping clean all the way. Umachi added a third
place. Moravian claimed the first two places in the pole vault at 15-5, but
MIT took the next three places. Cyrus Vafadari '12, returned from an ankle
sprain to lead MIT with a 14-5 1/4 vault. Nathan Peterson '12 and Yida Gao
'13, placed fourth and fifth respectively.

In the 600, Pat Marx '13, was up against Jabulani Blyden '13, from Williams, a
national qualifier as a freshman in the 400IH. Marx worked his way to the
front at the end of the 400, but Blyden blasted around just as they entered
the turn in a well timed move. Marx was simply stronger as he pulled away on
the final turn to win in 1:23.69. MIT also claimed third, fourth and sixth
with Logan Daum '11, Gil O'Neil '13 and Mac Gager '14.

David Way '13, won the 800 in a dramatic finish, coming from behind to win in
1:58.25. Richard Prevost '11, provided support with a 1:58.95 third place.
Trimble came back from the mile to place fourth in 2:00.87 and Jared Forman
'13, out for the past month with an injury, ran like he did not miss a day,
running 2:00.95 for sixth.

The 1000 was the most dominant event for MIT, as the Engineers claimed five of
the top six places. Hannon came back from the mile to win going away in
2:34.97. Dawit Zewdie '13, ran an excellent race, running 2:35.80, good for
second place. Andrew Erickson '12, Eric Safai '14 and Justin Bullock '14, took
4th-6th places.

Josh Duncavage '13, had a great sprint day, taking second place in both the 55
and 200 meter dashes. Moravian's Eric Woodruff took both victories, but
Duncavage did not concede anything, running a personal best in the 55 with a
6.63 time and then returning to sprint a flat track PR of 22.64. Babajide
Akinronbi '14, supported Duncavage in both events, placing third in 6.65 in
the 55 and placing fifth in the 200 despite the disadvantage of lane two. Marx
came back after the 600 to place fourth in the 200 in 22.93.

The Engineers shined in the distance events as well. Paul Welle '11, returning
from a bout of low iron, won the 3000 in 8:46.91, finishing with a 32 final
200. Dan Harper '12, added a third place. In the 5000, Roy Wedge '14, ran a
personal best of 15:18.63 to place second and Gihan Amarasiriwardena '11,
placed third in 15:21.71. Joe Christopher '12, added a fourth place.

Tech backed off of the relays, but still managed to run 7:59.16 in the 4x800
as Prevost (2:00.2), Daum (2:00.3), Zewdie (1:59.9) and Trimble (1:59.3) won
the event.

The men literally ran away with the meet, earning 186.5 points to 110 for
Williams and 78.5 for Moravian.

Next week, MIT will again split up their team, taking many runners over to
Boston University for their big Valentines Invitational while keeping the
field event performers and some runners at MIT's Coed Invite II.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

WOMEN CLAIM THIRD PLACE AT NCAA CHAMPIONSHIP

Men and Women Claim 19 All America Honors

March 11-12, 2011

The Engineers represented MIT well at the NCAA Division III Track and Field
Championship, hosted by Capital University in Columbus, Ohio. Fifteen MIT
athletes earned the right to compete at this prestigious championship where an
athlete generally has to be among the top 11-14 in the country to make the
field.

Starting off the competition for Tech was Hazel Briner '11, in the Pentathlon.
Briner was seeded ninth, but expected to duplicate or improve on last year's
third place finish. The start of the 55HH, the first event in the Pent. was
probably an omen as to how the rest of the event would go. Standing up at the
gun, possibly her worst start in two years, put her significantly behind the
field. Nevertheless she ran 8.72 as she ran extremely well once she got
moving. In the high jump portion of the event, she jumped pretty well. While
not matching her best of 5-2, she did clear 4-11 3/4 to put herself in seventh
place overall and only 34 points out of second. What used to be her best event
in the pent., the shot put, has abandoned her recently. Briner was only able
to manage a 29-9 1/2 throw, which put her back in 10th place. In the long jump
portion of the event, Briner was not able to match her best of 17-6, as she
took off over a foot behind the board each time, only jumping 15-7 1/2 to slip
to 11th place. The final event, the 800, went well, but it was too little, too
late. Briner paced it perfectly, opening up with a 34 first 200. She let the
pace slip a little in the middle but closed well to set an NCAA record for the
pentathlon 800 with her 2:22.51 performance. Unfortunately, this only moved
her up to ninth place.

Portia Jones '12, had a busy thirty minutes, first running 8.19 to set a new
personal best in the 55HH. Jones won her heat and had the second fastest time
in the trials. Half an hour later she was in the blocks for the 400 trials.
Taking the eight fastest times out of the four heats, Jones knew she had to
run fast. Being the ninth seed going into the race, she was placed in the same
heat as the fastest seed and one other who had run faster. The first 200 was
blazing and Jones dropped back, no longer competing for first. She got passed
at the line, finishing in 57.01. However, no one else in any of the heats ran
faster than her, so she enters the finals with the third fastest time.

Nathan Peterson '12, has moved into contention for the most improved award
with his amazing performances in the Pole Vault over the past four weeks.
Struggling in the regular season to even clear 14', Peterson had a
breakthrough in mid-February when he cleared 15-5. He repeated this
performance to win the New England Division III title, then cleared 15-7 at
the All New England Championship. Last week at the ECAC Championship he made
another breakthrough, clearing 16-5 1/4 to qualify for the NCAA Championship
as the eighth seed. Peterson's first time at Nationals certainly did not seem
to phase him as he cleared the opening height of 15-5 with over a foot to
spare and did the same with 15-11. It took him two attempts to clear 16-5, but
then he nailed 16-9 1/2 on his first attempt to set a new MIT record and put
himself in the thick of the scoring. Peterson made excellent attempts at 17-1,
but not quite enough to clear. His effort earned him All America honors in a
tie for fifth place.

In the Men's Weight Throw, Ken Cooper '13, and CK Umachi '12, entered the
competition seeded 12th and 14th respectively. Both throwers had been having
technical issues that they tried to work out in the final week. It proved to
be too little too late for the pair. Umachi looked good in warmups and on his
first throw hit his positions pretty well, releasing the weight and watching
it land over 62', only to get called on a late toe foul call. This demoralized
Umachi who only managed a 54-10 3/4 afterwards. Cooper threw in the second
flight. He consistently stepped in late on his second turn, managing only 56-3
1/4. Both throwers will be much better the next time they compete in this
meet.

Both the men's and women's DMR's placed 6th.  Both teams had been dealing with
illnesses, but managed to compete very well for every position.  Louise van
den Heuvel '14, shook off the effects of her still lingering cold and ran a
nice 3:41 leadoff 1200.  Martha Gross '12, thirty meters behind the pack when
she came around the first turn, followed with a 59 400 and Jamie Simmons '12,
ran a hard fought 2:19 800 leg to put MIT in 5th place.  Anna Holt-Gosselin
'11, who is coming back to run the 5K on Saturday, ran an excellent 5:01 1600
on the tight turned track to place sixth, just missing fifth place at the
line.  
  
The men led off with Logan Trimble '13, who had had a severe cold and was
still not up to full strength.  Nevertheless, Trimble ran a very competitive
3:06 leg to put MIT in ninth place.  DJ Ronde '13, was in limbo throughout his
400, but ran 51.4, a solid leg, to keep MIT in ninth.  Pat Marx '13, opened
his 800 leg with a 25.4 first 200 to get MIT back in the thick of the race.
This took its toll on Marx, particularly since he is still not up to full
strength after having his appendix out four weeks ago.  Marx ran tough moving
MIT up to seventh place with a 1:55 leg.  Kyle Hannon '13, fought off his foot
injury and the mental doubts he has been having and competed extraordinarily
well.  Opening up with a 59 first 400 got him up with the leaders, but also
took a lot out of him.  Hannon stayed competitive, running 4:11 to move MIT up
to sixth place.

Day two was everything MIT could have hoped for. The Women's Pole Vault led
things off for MIT, who had three entries in the event, including a tie for
the top seed, Karin Fisher '11. The opening height was 11' and both Hazel
Briner and Lauren Kuntz '13, cleared it on the first attempt. At 11-6, Kuntz
cleared on first attempt and Briner on the second attempt. At 12' 1/2", again
both Kuntz and Briner cleared on first attempt. While neither cleared a higher
height this proved to be enough to score as Kuntz tied for sixth and Briner
placed eighth. Fisher came in at 12', cleared that on first attempt as well as
12-4, 12-8 and 13-0. Going to 13-4 1/4 there were only two vaulters remaining,
Fisher and the other top seed, Abigail Schaffer of Moravian College. Schaffer
cleared 13-4 on her second attempt while Fisher needed three attempts. Fisher
needed to make the next height to have a chance of winning but could not quite
manage 13-8, which Schaffer did clear for a new NCAA Division III record. The
11.5 points earned by MIT gave them 14.5 total so far.

The 55HH final was being run in two sections since the track was incapable of
eight sprint or hurdle lanes. The first section ran very fast with the top two
running 8.10 and 8.11. Jones was in the second section. Having her best start
of the year and a technically sound race, she ran a personal best of 8.11,
easily winning her section. She tied for second place, but felt she would have
won had she been able to go head to head with those in the first section.
Nevertheless, it was seven more points for MIT, giving them 21.5.

Jones was back up thirty minutes later, this time in the finals of the 400.
Again involved in a two section final, Jones ran her best flat track 400 ever.
Controlling her first 200 in a 26.6, allowed her to finish strong in 56.44.
She finished third in her section, but only one in the other section ran
faster, giving her fourth place and five more points. MIT now stood at 26.5,
which was starting to look like they might have a shot at top four overall and
another NCAA team trophy.

Holt-Gosselin in the 5K was next for MIT. The initial pace was very quick,
1:16 for the first 400 and 2:37 for the 800. The top three pulled away at this
point, leaving Holt-Gosselin back with the main pack and in eighth place as
the pack maintained perfect 83 second 400's. Holt-Gosselin came through 1600
splits of 5:23 and 10:56. At this point, the pack pulled away from her. After
another 400 at 83, Holt-Gosselin slowed to 86 for two 400's as she had no one
to pace off of. With 600 meters to go, she sped up, which was needed to hold
off a fast closing Keene State runner. Holt-Gosselin finished with a 38 final
200 to run 17:12.00 for eighth place, giving her another All America honor and
MIT one more point.

With only the 4x400 relay remaining, MIT had locked up third place for their
third consecutive NCAA Division III Championship (Outdoor '10, Cross Country
'10). The 4x400 runners were probably unaware of the team standings, only
knowing their team was close and needed one more great event. There were three
seeded sections of the 4x400 with MIT in the second section. Jamie Simmons
took up her customary leadoff duties and battled wonderfully, bringing the
baton home in first, running 58.8 on the slow track. Briner performed an
excellent exchange, also running a great leg, keeping MIT in front with a 59.0
leg. Another perfect handoff to Martha Gross shot MIT into the lead, which
Gross held until the handoff, running a 59.2 split. Yet another great exchange
to Jones produced a nice gap for MIT. Jones built the lead throughout the leg,
running 57.0 to give MIT the section win in 3:54.03. In the final section, all
four teams ran faster than MIT, giving the Engineers fifth place overall.

In addition to the third place team finish for the women and 28th place for
the men, MIT garnered 19 total All America honors for 13 different athletes.

These athletes earned a week off before they get back to working towards the
NCAA Division III Outdoor Championship at the end of May.

RETURN TO INDOOR  
  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**RELAYS DO IT AGAIN**

Men Repeat as New England Division III Champions / Women Finish Four Points
Out of First

February 18-19, 2011

Rarely, if ever, do athletic competitions go perfectly for an entire team.
MIT's defense of their New England Division III Men's Indoor Track and Field
title was successful, but they never had the lead until the final event,
pulling out a 114 to 112 victory over Williams College and nearly 40 other New
England colleges at the host school, Springfield College.

Going into the meet, MIT was a slight favorite over the always competitive
Williams College. However, on Tuesday, Pat Marx, the number one seed in the
800 and a key relay member, developed appendicitis and had to have surgery on
Wednesday. This was a huge loss for the Engineers but they did not waiver in
their confidence.

On day one, Williams had two entries in the pentathlon and MIT none. Although
they were only seeded second and fourth, the Ephs managed a 1-2 finish for an
early 18 point lead.

Day two began with the 35lb. Weight Throw and Long Jump. MIT had no long
jumpers, but were seeded third and seventh in the Weight Throw. Williams had
the fourth seed in the weight and fifth seed in the Long Jump. Williams showed
they were there to compete as they pulled out a fourth and fifth in the Long
Jump and a third in the Weight Throw. MIT started their meet with a poor
result, finishing fifth (Ken Cooper '13) and tenth in the Weight Throw. Now
behind 33 to 4, things were certainly not looking good.

The Shot Put, High Jump and Mile Run were the next events to be competed and
MIT expected to outscore Williams in each event. The Shot Put, like the Weight
Throw, did not go as hoped but Ken Cooper again managed a fifth and the
Williams thrower did not score. In the High Jump, Matt Falk '12, came through
with an excellent 6-4 performance, good for third place. However, the Williams
jumper managed to finish second at the same height. The mile was the first
event to really go MIT's way. Seeded sixth and eighth, MIT finished first and
seventh. Kyle Hannon '13, worked the field expertly, enjoying the relatively
slow 67, 2:13 first half pace. Hannon threw down a 1:31 final 600 meters to
win in 4:17.56. Logan Trimble '13, was right with Hannon until the kick.
Although he was not able to match Hannon's foot speed, he did run 4:21.96 to
finish seventh. Williams did not score, bringing the totals to 41 for Williams
and 26 for MIT, a much improved position.

The 55HH, 400, 600 were next on the track. MIT was not looking forward to the
55HH final. While all three MIT hurdlers; Andrew Musacchio '11, Nick Leonard
'11, and Brent Johnson '14, ran season bests, none made the finals. Williams
in the meantime, proceeded to place second and third after being seeded fifth
and ninth. In the next event, the 400, MIT was not seeded to score and did not
really come close. Williams, seeded second and third, even improved on that,
placing first and third. The 600 was supposed to provide Williams with 10
points and MIT with seven as they were seeded fifth and sixth. Williams
finally lost some seed points, finishing second. MIT, with David Way '13,
stepped up to garner fourth place, but that was all the points MIT received.
MIT now had 31 points to 79 for Williams. Again, it was not looking very good
for the Engineers, but they did not pay attention to the score and kept taking
the meet one event at a time.

Back to the field events, the Pole Vault and Triple Jump were finishing up.
Nathan Peterson '12, was seeded to place second for MIT, but he found his
groove in the vault, clearing 15-5 to take the victory. Cyrus Vafadari '12,
seeded ninth, moved up one place to add a point to the MIT total. Williams
also moved up, claiming sixth place when they were seeded seventh. In the
Triple Jump, Mattias Flander '11, made his season by popping a two foot season
PR and one foot indoor track personal best, jumping 46-2 to claim fifth place
and push Williams back to sixth and seventh. The score was now 87 for Williams
and 46 for MIT, still nothing to get excited about.

MIT was seeded to score 26 points to eight for Williams in the next three
events, the 55 Dash, 800 ad 1000. In the 55, the sprinters showed they were
ready to start the comeback. Babajide Akinronbi '14, ran back to back 6.60
efforts in the trials and finals to earn fifth place. Josh Duncavage '13,
earned his seed, placing eighth. Dawit Zewdie '13, seeded 15th, raced very
well out of the slow section, earning sixth place overall to add three more to
the MIT cause. The big event, the 1000, had four MIT runners in the fast
section and two more in the second section. In the slower section, Stephen
Serene '12, took charge of the race and hammered home a 2:32.70 PR for the
section win. The MIT runners did not push the pace in the fast section,
opening it up to anyone, and could not handle the change in pace at the end.
None of the four scored while Serene came away with the event victory. MIT did
not get their 23 points, instead settling for 10, but Williams came away with
nothing. The net gain in the three events for MIT was 18 points to zero for
Williams, making it Ephs 87, MIT 64.

The 200, 3K, 5K, were the deal breakers for Williams. MIT's trio of Duncavage,
Tyler Singer-Clarke '14 and Akinronbi scored 17 points in the 200, placing
second, fourth and fifth respectively after only being seeded for nine.
Williams, seeded for 10, only managed six. Joe Christopher '12, out for the
past two weeks with low iron, ran an excellent race in the 3000, closing well
to claim sixth in 8:41.12 and Paul Welle added an eighth in 8:43.32. Dan
Harper '12, continued to have problems losing focus in the latter stages of
races as he fell back when the very slow, strategic race picked up pace, but
once again woke up in the final 800 to move up to fifth place in 15:22.42. Roy
Wedge '14, added a point for eighth in 15:26.14. MIT earned another 26 points
in the three events to just nine for Williams. Entering the three final
events, all relays, the score was Williams 96, MIT 90.

The seeds in the relays are irrelevant since few teams have the same people
running the actual event that ran the seed time. MIT's depth was counted on to
pull them through when most teams had few if any fresh runners. The Distance
Medley Relay was first and MIT was running with the quartet of Richard Prevost
'11, Nick Leonard '11, Justin Bullock '14, and Eric Safai '14. Prevost set the
tone, running a dominant 3:10 for the 1200 leg. Leonard ran a 52 second 400 to
keep MIT at the front. Bullock, proven to be an outstanding competitor all
season, got it done with a 1:58 800 leg. Safai, pushed the pace early and
closed with a 61 to run 4:21 in the 1600 leg to give MIT the victory in
10:21.04. Williams placed fourth, putting MIT one point behind.

Williams had a much stronger 4x400, earning All America honors in 2010, but
their quartet was too fatigued to place better than third. Without Marx, MIT
was concerned about their ability to put together a quality 4x400.
Fortunately, Singer-Clarke stepped up and put out a 51 second lead off leg on
the tight turn track in his first 400 of the year. Mac Gager '14, also ran 51.
Jake Jurewicz '14, challenged on the tight turns, was only able to run 52, but
DJ Ronde '13, closed hard with a 51 to put MIT in fifth at 3:25.83, only
losing two points to Williams.

The final event, the 4x800 would decide the champion. Both teams lined the
track and started bringing the house down well before the event even started.
MIT had plenty of bodies to produce a sub 2:00 800, but they needed a sure
victory, so Kyle Hannon was substituted in. Logan Daum 11, did not run his
absolute fastest race ever, but he put MIT in good position with a leadoff
2:01. Hannon came back for his third race and hammered the field with a 1:56.
Gil O'Neil '13, fresh and ready to run, held the lead, running 1:59. Zewdie,
coming back from the open 800, and knowing he had to win the race, held off
the closing runner from Springfield repeatedly in the final 200 to give MIT
the victory in 7:55.54. Williams needed to finish second to win the meet, but
could only manage a 8:03 for fourth place and second in the meet.

MIT's men have now won both the cross country and indoor track and field New
England Division III titles this year.

The Women's New England Division III Championship was hosted by MIT. Williams
College was seeded to win the meet by 13 points going into the meet, with MIT
second. Similar to the men, the women missed some opportunities to put the
meet away, then nearly climbed back, coming within four points at the end,
losing to Williams 137 to 141.

On day one, MIT was hoping for a great start as Hazel Briner '11, was planning
on defending her title and hitting the auto standard for the NCAA Championship
in the pentathlon. The event started out well with a personal best of 8.61 in
the 55HH. Her high jump was not great, but still a decent 4'11. The shot put,
again not her best, but still a solid 33-5 1/4. In the long jump portion of
the pentathlon, Briner did not take a well advised safety jump and ended up
fouling out, putting her out of contention. Jackie Konopka '14, not seeded to
score, put together a phenomenal five events to place third overall with 2958
points. Williams earned fourth place while they were not seeded to score,
expanding on their predicted spread.

Day two began with the Long Jump and 20lb. Weight Throw. Briner and Jackie
Brew '14, were seeded fourth and fifth to Williams' first and sixth in the
Long Jump. Brew jumped a personal best of 17-6 3/4 to earn third, but Briner
was not able to score. Williams earned first and fourth, adding to their lead.
MIT had no one entered in the weight throw. Williams had a freshman seeded
second but she only managed a sixth, giving MIT a little break. The score was
now Williams 23, MIT 12.

The women's order of events is different than the men's, starting the running
with the DMR, then the 5000 and the 4x200. In the DMR, MIT put together a
strong team of Andrea Nickerson '14, Kirsten Aarsvold '11, Olivia Papa '14,
and Anna Holt-Gosselin '11. Nickerson led off with a competitive 3:50 1200,
followed by a 62.7 by Aarsvold in the 400. Papa put MIT in second place with a
2:23.6 800 and Holt-Gosselin took over and buried everyone with a 5:06.5
anchor for a 12:23.06. Williams closed hard, but too late, finishing second.
In the 5K, Williams put in their two national qualifiers while MIT had four
entries but none had been running at the level of the Williams runners. True
to the seeds, Williams placed 1-2-3 for 24 big points. MIT managed an eighth
place by Tania Morimoto '12, for one point. The 4x200 was a total domination
by MIT, led by Portia Jones and her 24.9 split, Brew, Jamie Simmons '12, and
Martha Gross '12, ran 1:44.57 to win by 2 1/2 seconds over second place
Williams to set a new MIT record. Nevertheless, MIT was pretty far behind at
this point, 63 to 33.

The Mile Run was next, followed by the 55HH and the 400, all events where MIT
hoped to do very well. In the mile, freshman Louise van den Heuvel, grew
frustrated by getting boxed in a bit, but still ran a solid race, placing
seventh in 5:09.65 while Williams did not score. MIT pulled All America
hurdler, Portia Jones '12, because of the other events she was in, and the
need to counter Williams potential points in the 55 Dash. MIT still had three
finalists in the event and made good on the seeds, placing third, fourth and
fifth, all running season or personal bests in the event. Amy Magnuson 'G, ran
8.47, Briner a 8.52 and Brew a 8.59. Both Magnuson and Briner qualified
provisionally for the NCAA Division III Championship. Once again, Williams did
not score. The 400 was supposed to be Jones's event, but she did not get out
well enough, losing the break and not making up the ground. Her second place
in 58.39 was supported by a seventh place from Martha Gross '12, in 60.19.
Williams was also blanked in this event. The score was looking better for MIT
as they climbed to 60 points to the 63 for Williams.

The Shot Put and High Jump were finishing up and MIT was not seeded to score
in either event and did not. Williams earned seven points in the Shot Put but
zero in the high jump. Up by 10 now, 70 to 60, Williams had some of their
strong events coming up.

The 600, 55Dash, 800 and 1000 were the next four events on the track, and MIT
would need a miracle to make up much ground on Williams as Tech just did not
have enough entries. In the 600, Jamie Simmons was seeded fourth, but everyone
thought she had a good chance of winning. Not attacking the race as she is
accustomed to, due in part to her coach's advise to not go out faster than
upper 31's for the first 200, probably took the fire out of her legs. She just
never got going, struggling a bit to get fourth place in 1:38.64. Williams
earned third place in the race. The 55 Dash, with Jones seeded second and Brew
seeded seventh gave MIT hope in battling the number three seed from Williams.
The 4x200 and 400 took too much out of Jones's legs as she still ran 7.45, but
in the talented field, that was only good for seventh. Brew ran 7.52, after
running a new freshman record of 7.46 in the trials, missing a scoring place
by one. Tanasia Hoffler, the winner of the long jump, also won the dash, an
unexpected 10 points for Williams. MIT's Papa was seeded eighth in the 800 and
improved on that, running an excellent 2:22.09 for sixth place. Williams
earned fourth place and also second place in the 1000, an event where MIT did
not have an entry. The score was again heavily in Williams favor, 99 to 70.

The final two individual events on the track were the 200 and 3000. Jones was
up again, and the number one seed, was not happy with the results of the 55
Dash and 400. Jones blasted a new school record of 25.43, even though she
eased up in the final five meters. Hoffler placed third for Williams. In the
3000, Holt-Gosselin returned from the DMR to run a truly inspirational race.
Looking as though she might fall back a couple of times in the final 800, she
took off with nearly 400 to go, finishing with a 35 final 200 to win in a new
MIT record of 10:08.37. Martina de Geus '14, also ran an excellent race,
placing sixth in 10:15.29. Williams earned fourth place to keep MIT at bay.
The score now, MIT 91 to 110 for Williams.

The field events were now finishing up, the Pole Vault and the Triple Jump.
The Pole Vault was to MIT what the 5K had been for Williams. Karin Fisher '11,
won the event at 12-5 1/2, again just missing 13'. Briner came back to place
second at 11-11 3/4, which was matched by teammate Lauren Kuntz '13, a new PR
for third place. Kate Wymbs '14, placed eighth with a vault of 10-6, giving
MIT 27 points in the event. In the Triple Jump. Magnuson and Brew, both made
the finals when neither were seeded to do so. Magnuson placed seventh in 35-3
and Brew jumped 34-4 for eighth. Williams placed fourth in the vault and
scored big in the Triple Jump with Hoffler winning her third event. The score
going into the final two relays was Williams 130 to 121 for MIT.

MIT, the third fastest 4x400 team in the country, could have easily won that
event. However, the 4x800, seeded only sixth, was not strong enough to hope
for the win. The Engineers needed to win both relays and hope Williams would
not be able to score more than 10 points in the two relays. Moving Briner and
Simmons to the 4x800 to go with Papa and van den Heuvel, and moving in Megan
Bumgarner '14 and Aarsvold to run with Gross and Jones in the 4x400 would give
Tech the best chance to win both events. The 4x400 was first. Gross ran a
great 61.3 first leg, although she was pushed and tripped by a Tufts runner
entering the final turn. She recovered to hand off in first to Bumgarner.
Bumgarner ran a great 61.6 to keep MIT in front. Aarsvold could not hang with
the Tufts runner, finishing with a 62.7 split. Jones went out in 28, just not
seeming to have what it would take to catch the Tufts anchor. Running 59.5
gave MIT second place, but Williams earned fourth place for five points. MIT
was now down by six, needing to win the 4x800 and hope Williams would finish
no higher than fifth. Papa led off with a 2:25.9, racing instead of getting
out front and running her best, but certainly understandable for a freshman in
her third race in the five hour meet. Simmons ran 2:22 to get MIT to the
front. van den Heuvel ran 2:25 but had lost ground to the leaders. Briner took
off in 33 for the first 200, catching the leaders. In the final 200, Briner
took the lead but could not quite hold it, just losing in the final straight
despite her 2:20 split. The 9:33.42 was good for second place, but Williams
earned third place to close out the championship.

MIT just did not have enough guns, needing too much from too few. The quality
of New England Division III Track and Field is just too high to win these
meets with only a few stars.

The Engineers will now focus on getting individuals and relays qualified and
ready for the NCAA Championship in three weeks. The next meet will be the All
New England Championship at Boston University on February 25-26.

RETURN TO INDOORS  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**FISHER AND DMR GAIN VICTORIES**

Team Records, NCAA Qualifying Marks, Personal Bests Lead the Way for MIT

February 25-26, 2011

Not being concerned about points in the New England Intercollegiate Amateur
Athletic Association Championship (NEICAAA), but instead focusing on only
competing those capable of reaching or improving on the NCAA qualifying
rounds, MIT had a marvelous weekend of competition at the Boston University
Track and Tennis Center.

Hazel Briner '11, started things off for the Engineers, competing in the
Pentathlon. Needing a score near 3300 to ensure her trip to nationals, Briner
only needed solid performances, not personal bests. In the 60 meter hurdles,
she ran 9.45, a couple tenths slower than her best, but still a solid start.
In the high jump, her approach was deep and her arch non-existent, but she
managed to clear 4' 9". The shot put went reasonably well as she tossed the
implement 33-2. In the long jump, she was over a foot short of her best at
16-2 1/4, which certainly put the pressure on her. She was not feeling well,
but knew she had to deliver a very good 800 to get a respectable score.
Pushing too hard to get to the front and running the first 100 in 15 seconds,
took a lot out of her overall potential time. Nevertheless, she competed well
to win the 800 in 2:20.70. Her overall score of 3275 should be enough to get
her to Nationals.

In the pole vault, Karin Fisher '11, was out to defend her title, and teammate
Lauren Kuntz '13, whose personal best was 11-11 3/4, was hoping to add a few
centimeters to her PR in order to improve her chance of making Nationals. In
2010, Fisher won the event in 12-4, while this year, she cleared 13' to win
the meet and then proceeded to also clear 13-3 3/4 to reclaim the top spot in
the country for Division III. Kuntz placed fourth, but was only able to clear
11-6. In the men's event, Nathan Peterson '12, continued to improve. Peterson
cleared 15-7, and nearly clearing 16-1, as he placed third in the talented
field.

Back on the track, the women's Distance Medley Relay was about to put their
best foot forward in attempting to make the NCAA Championship. Knowing it
would take at least a sub 12:00 effort, the women seemed ready for the task.
Leading off and running the 1200 leg was Louise van den Heuvel '14. She got
out well, towards the back of the pack, running 34 for the first 200. While a
little fast, the pace settled and van den Heuvel moved up in the pack, coming
through the 400 in 72 and the 800 in 2:24. With the pace slowing a bit, van
den Heuvel made a move to the front, passing the 1000 mark in 3:01 and then
bringing it home in an excellent 3:37.8. Martha Gross '12, ran the 400 leg,
and uncharacteristically got out fast (26.8) and finished in 58.0. Jamie
Simmons '12, took the trip up to the 800 and delivered marvelously. She
started out with a fast 32.0 first 200 then raced very well, running 34.0 in
each of the next three 200's to finish in 2:14.0, putting MIT in a solid
second place. Anna Holt-Gosselin '11, anchored, running the 1600 leg. Holt-
Gosselin raced to win, taking the lead in the first lap and never letting it
go, running 4:59.9 for the metric mile. The overall time of 11:49.80 is the
fastest time in the country this year for Division III and a new MIT record.

In the Weight Throw, both Ken Cooper '13, and CK Umachi '12, were hoping to
improve their NCAA marks. Cooper has picked up a couple of bad habits that
have prevented him from finishing his throws as he should. Continuing in this
mode, he placed eighth with a throw of 55-8. Umachi however, just needed to
get into a position to finish well and he did, throwing 61-0 on his fifth
throw to place second overall and move into ninth place on the NCAA list, two
inches behind teammate Cooper.

Saturday had Portia Jones '12, competing in the semi-finals of the 60HH and
the finals of the 200. Her qualifying time in the 60HH trials was 8.95. In the
semis, she had a delayed trail leg on hurdle one and a resulting deceleration
from getting pulled back by her lead arm, but fixed things to make finals in a
personal best of 8.85. In the finals, Jones continued her first hurdle errors
and also messed up on hurdle two. She ran well after that, but was only able
to claim seventh place in 8.99. In the 200 trials she set a new MIT record of
24.96, but cruised in the final five meters and that was enough to keep her
out of the fast section in the final. Running out of the middle of three
sections, Jones ran an excellent race, pushing the entire 200 to run 24.40 to
win her section. In the fast section, two of the four runners ran faster than
Jones, giving her third place overall and yet another MIT record.

In the mile run for the men, both Kyle Hannon '13, and Logan Trimble '13, were
hoping to qualify for nationals. After his 4:05 1500 two weeks ago, Hannon was
indeed ready to run fast. However, his foot had some shooting pains in the
sole, causing him to drop out at the halfway point. Trimble, just starting to
recover from being ill all week, was still too weak to race, starting to dry-
heave at the 1100 mark and also dropping out.

In the shot put, Mitch Kelley '11, realized he was facing his final indoor
track meet and rallied to throw a personal best of 49-00 1/4 to make finals,
although he was unable to score.

Back on the track, Justin Bullock was running the 1000 finals. Bullock ran a
flawless race, running splits of 29, 58, 1:28 and 1:58 en route to a final
time of 2:28.29. Moving up through the pack, picking his way at perfect times,
Bullocks fourth place finish was also a new MIT freshman record.

Next week, MIT will travel to New York City to race in the ECAC Division III
Championships at the Armory. Again, MIT will only be trying to improve their
position at Nationals, not score points at the ECAC Championship, so only a
portion of those who have actually qualified will be making the trip. The rest
of the team is preparing for the outdoor season.

RETURN TO INDOOR  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

ENGINEERS SWEEP VICTORIES AT SPRINGFIELD COLLEGE INVITATIONAL

January 22, 2011

MIT entered the nine team Springfield College Invitational seeded first in
both the men's and women's meets. Although the men were favored by a
comfortable margin, that changed when two sprinters came up with minor
injuries, forcing them to drop out of the meet, taking their points in the 55,
200 and 4x200. The women were only favored by three points over Tufts and had
concerns about being able to defeat the much larger team from Tufts.
Fortunately, the Engineers improved significantly over their seed performances
while it appeared the seeds for the other teams were a bit optimistic. The men
won the meet with 215 points to 99 for Tufts, 92 for host Springfield, 77 for
Wheaton, 74 for UMass Dartmouth, 67 for Coast Guard and Ramapo and 39 for
Westfield State. The women from MIT scored 206.5 to 139.5 for Tufts, 99.5 for
Ramapo, 96 for Wheaton, 75 for Springfield, 36 for Westfield State, 31 for
UMass Dartmouth, 26.5 for Coast Guard and 26 points for Smith.

The first running event was the 4x200. MIT's women, still without Martha Gross
'12, due to a back injury were hoping to put together a sub 1:50 performance.
Portia Jones '12, anchored the team with a superb 24.7 leg that brought the
Engineers to within 1.37 seconds of the victory. An amount of time easily made
up with the substitution of a healthy Gross. The men had to start the meet on
a poor note as they had to scratch the event.

The second event set the tone for the rest of the meet for the men as Dan
Harper '12, and Roy Wedge '14, went 1-2 in the 3000 with times of 8:47.18 and
8:47.53 respectively. At the same time, Ken Cooper '13, and CK Umachi '12,
took first and second place honors in the 35 lb. Weight Throw with throws of
57-7 and 52-9 1/4.

The women came up with a second and third in the 3000 with excellent
performances by Martina de Geus '14, and Maggie Lloyd '12 running 10:23.86 and
10:34.38 respectively. In the field events, the pole vault went first for the
women and MIT dominated as they usually do in this event. Karin Fisher '11
(12-7 1/2) and Hazel Briner '11 (12-3 1/2) both hit the provisional mark for
the NCAA Championships as they placed first and second. Fisher's performance
is a new record for MIT. In addition MIT also picked up fifth (Lauren Kuntz
'13), sixth (Rebecca Stavely '11) and eighth Kate Wymbs '14) places in the
event.

The men continued to dominate with both expected and surprise performances.
Babajide Akinronbi '14, who has gone from 6.87 to 6.81 to 6.78 in his first
two meets, continued the movement towards faster times by running 6.65 in the
55 meter dash trials and then 6.60 in the finals to claim 2nd place. Akinronbi
also dropped a half second in the 200 with a 23.37. As expected, Pat Marx '13,
busted out a 1:23.19 600 victory on a track with extremely tight turns, but
everyone but Marx was surprised by his 49.8 anchor in the 4x400 that placed
second. Winning his section of the 800, freshman Justin Bullock continued to
surprise everyone as he dropped a 2:00.19 800, good for fifth place overall.

Other excellent performances by the men were led by Logan Trimble '13, who
showed for the second week in succession that he is not a fluke. Trimble
annihilated the field in the 1000 with an even split 2:32.18. He came back to
anchor the 4x800 team to victory with a 1:59.2 leg. Cooper added a victory in
the Shot Put with a personal best of 50-2 1/2. Matt Falk '12, continued his
winning ways, claiming the high jump with his jump of 6-3 1/4. Kyle Hannon
'13, came from the back to win the mile in 4:25.35 with a 62 second final 400.

For the women, Portia Jones had an excellent day on the tight turned track.
After qualifying for the NCAA Championships in the 55HH in 8.36, a mark that
was not satisfying given that she lost an individual race for the first time
this year, she took out her frustration on the 200 field as she ran 25.93,
easing up in the final 20 meters and still winning by .8. In her final event,
the 4x400, Jones anchored a 59.2 to secure the victory with a 4:04.30.

In addition to her NCAA qualifying vault, Briner, set a personal best in the
55 dash twice as she ran 7.65 in the trials and then 7.64 in the finals to
place seventh. She then popped a 17-6 1/4 leap in the long jump to place
second and set a new MIT record. Briner capped her day with a superb 59.8
personal best leg in the 4x400 to set up Jones.

Jackie Brew '14, continued to improve for MIT. Her busy day included personal
bests in the 55 dash, the 55HH, the 200 and the long jump. Brew's 7.54 in the
55 dash was a new freshman record. All three of her other marks (8.74, 16-2
1/4, 27.65) place her among the top ten all-time at MIT.

Louise van den Heuvel '14, took a double victory with two new personal bests.
Her 5:15.96 won the mile going away, leading a 1-3-4-5 MIT near sweep (Olivia
Papa '14, 5:20.54, Andrea Nickerson '14, 5:21.22, Alina Gatowski '11,
5:22.34). She came back to sprint away with the 1000 in 3:07.23, this time
leading a 1-2-3 sweep (Nickerson 3:10.28, Gatowski 3:12.18).

Papa won her own event, running 2:27.80 in the 800. Jamie Simmons '12, claimed
the only other individual victory, running a season best of 1:40.22 in the
600. Simmons also ran a 27.6 leg in the 4x200 and a 61.7 leadoff in the 4x400
relay.

Next weekend, MIT will split their squads. Some of the women will compete at
BU on Friday in the Terrier Classic and others will compete at MIT on Saturday
in the MIT Coed Invite I. Most of the runners on the men's team will compete
at BU on Saturday while the field event specialists and remaining runners will
be at MIT.

RETURN TO INDOOR  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

PERSONAL AND SEASON BESTS HIGHLIGHT THE WEEKEND FOR MIT

January 29, 2011

In a unique weekend that allowed MIT to split up their team between two meets
and accomplish some great performances to help set the team up for the New
England Division III Championship in three weeks, half of the team made the
trip to Boston University and the other half stayed home.

Boston University, across the river, from MIT, holds two large invitationals
each indoor season where individuals come from across the country to compete
on the fast banked 200 meter track. Having a faster sprint surface and equally
good if not superior field event facilities, MIT hosts meets on the same
weekends (MIT Coed Invite I and II) as BU to accommodate many teams throughout
the Northeast who wish to also split their teams up between the two meets.

On Friday, the Terrier Classic at BU was for women only. MIT sent their top
pole vaulters hoping for some top competition, but the top two vaulters in the
country for Division III were left to fight it out among themselves. Karin
Fisher '11, won the event at 12-4 3/4, although she was clearly over 12-8,
hitting with her chest on the way down. Hazel Briner '11, settled for second
with a vault of 11-11 3/4, showing up just in time for the warmup right after
taking her MCAT for medical school applications. Lauren Kuntz '13, claimed
third in the non-scoring meet at 10-11 3/4.

On the track, Martha Gross '12, returned from a lower back injury, and after a
week and a half of training showed she has not lost much. Gross powered to a
60.38 400 and came back in the 200 to run 27.46. Jamie Simmons '12 was the
star on the track for MIT, clocking 58.00 to provisionally qualify for the
NCAA Division III Championship. Megan Bumgarner '14, ran her season best,
running 61.45 even though she had missed two days with a severe cold.

In the Mile Run, Louise van den Heuvel '14, continued to improve by multiple
seconds each week. This time by nine seconds as she clocked a 5:06.11,
finishing strong enough to know she has even more. Martina de Geus, also a
freshman, ran 5:12.12, herself improving tremendously each week.

Maggie Lloyd '12, provided the biggest improvement of the meet, knocking off
26 seconds from her previous best in the 5k to run 18:11. 81. Also improving
significantly for a season best as she returns from a hip injury, Anna Holt-
Gosselin '11, ran 18:15.22.

The men, competing on the Saturday portion of the meet, brought many more
runners and had equally successful results. In the field events, CK Umachi
'12, threw a nice personal best of 55-0 1/4 in the Weight Throw. On the track,
where MIT focused most of their athletes, the personal bests were many.

In the 200, Josh Duncavage '13, led the way with a season best 22.60. Babajide
Akinronbi '14, still learning a lot about the technical art of sprinting,
blasted a 22.96 for a new personal best.

In the 400, DJ Ronde '13, ran a nice personal best of 50.97 to lead MIT
runners. Nick Leonard '11, ran 51.29 and freshman Jake Jurewicz produced an
indoor best of 51.41.

Running the 500 for the first time, Mac Gager '14, ran an excellent 1:07.70,
which converts to a 1:24.60 in the 600. Matt Baron '13, also ran a personal
best, his time a 1:09.51.

The 800 produced some great performances for this time of year for MIT. Pat
Marx '13, qualified provisionally for the NCAA Division III Championship with
a 1:53.84. Marx ran a well paced race, but perhaps made his move a bit late,
ending up in second despite a very strong finish. David Way '13, came back
from a long term hamstring injury, running 1:57.87. Dawit Zewdie '13,
continued the improvements for the sophomore class, producing a 1:58.18. Logan
Daum '11, ran a great personal best, clocking 1:58.32.

Moving to the 1000 meter race, things continued to go very well for MIT.
Richard Prevost '11, nursing a sore knee since the end of the cross country
season and just returning to workouts this week, showed that the mental part
is more important than the physical as he ran 2:32.27. Stephen Serene '12,
turned around two weeks of poor results to run a great 2:32.92. Showing he is
great at racing any middle distance, Justin Bullock '14, produced a 2:33.97
personal best.

In the mile, Logan Trimble '13, got caught in a race where the leader went out
in 59 seconds for the first quarter and the rest of the field was back at 64.
Trimble took middle ground, but was taken out of the race by this tactic.
After coming through in 3:11, he had trouble holding on after becoming
disengaged from the race. Nevertheless, he ran a personal best of 4:17.57. In
a later section, Kyle Hannon '13, continued to react slowly to cover the moves
of other runners and got caught on the rail, forcing him to lose momentum at
least three times. Showing his incredible talent, he waited until the final
400, unleashing a 59 kick to finish in 4:15.73. In still another section, Eric
Safai '14, and Jay McKenna '14, were in and out competitively throughout the
race. Nevertheless, Safai ran a personal best of 4:23.70 and McKenna a season
best 4:27.01.

The only relay race the Engineers attempted was the 4x400. Trying to run a
time that will get them into the fast section of the New England Division III
Championship, the quartet of Ronde, Gager, Jurewicz and Marx knew they would
need to run in the low 3:20's. With a previous season best of 3:28, the
foursome would have their work cut out for them. Ronde led off with his best
leg ever, a 50.8. Gager got out well, executing a great handoff and running a
very aggressive leg to produce a 51.7 effort. Jurewicz did not get out well,
slowing down Gager as he came in, as well as the speed of the baton through
the zone. Nevertheless, Jurewicz ran a strong 51.3 to put MIT in a favorable
position. The handoff to Marx was worse yet as Marx did not produce any speed
on his takeoff, virtually stopping to receive the baton with both hands.
Showing his considerable talent, Marx ran a 49.7 split to give MIT a 3:22.42
performance.

In the distance events, Ben Mattocks '12, continued his comeback, running a
tough early pace in the 3000, although he was not able to hold it at the end.
His time of 8:43.23 was a nice season best. Joe Christopher '12, took the lead
at the start of his 3000 section, starting off with a 31 first 200. Correcting
his pace salvaged a decent performance, but certainly created a premature
anaerobic situation. Christopher was able to manage a 8:45.75. Dan Harper '12,
was the final MIT competitor of the meet, running the 5000. Running with the
leaders for the entire race, Harper successfully battled his habit of slowing
down in the middle of the race, maintaining 73 second quarter pace to come
through 1600 splits of 4:53, 9:46 and 14:37 en route to a personal best of
15:10.08.

While all of this was going on, the rest of the team was competing back at
MIT. For the women, Brooke Hamilton '14, led the way, throwing a nice personal
best of 37-8 3/4 in the shot put. In the long jump, Hazel Briner won the
event, jumping 17-2 1/4 and both Jackie Brew '14, and Amy Magnuson 'G,
provided season bests of 16-7 3/4 and 16-5 3/4 respectively. Marie Burkland
'13, competed for the first time since early outdoor track last spring,
running a 5:34.01 mile, far off her 5:12 from 2010, but pretty good for one
workout.

On the men's side Jackson Wirekoh '13, won the triple jump with a leap of 42-2
3/4. Mitch Kelley '11, matched his season best in the shot put at 47-11 1/4.
Freshman Jeremy Sharpe threw a personal best of 44-5 1/2 in the 35 lb. Weight
Throw as he continues to learn the event.

Next week, MIT plays host to rival Williams College and Moravian College,
making the trip from Pennsylvania. For the past 30+ years, New England
Division III track and field has been dominated by Williams College and MIT on
the men's side and the same is true for the past two years on the women's
side. MIT's men have won this tri-meet the past two years while the Williams'
women have won the past two meets.

RETURN TO INDOOR  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

**RELAYS ANCHOR MIT EFFORT**

Men's DMR, Women's 4x400 Earn NCAA Automatic Standard

February 11-12, 2011

Most of MIT's runners performed at the Boston University Valentines Classic
this weekend, while most of the field event performers competed at the MIT
Invitational, both non-scoring meets. Both meets were tuneups for the upcoming
New England Division III Championships next weekend. The men's Distance Medley
Relay and the women's 4x400 Meter Relay both took advantage of the fast track
and great competition to surpass the NCAA Division III automatic standard.

The men's DMR was the first event of the weekend. Seeded in the fast section,
MIT's quartet of sophomores were confident running against the predominantly
Division I competition. Leading off, Logan Trimble attacked the 1200 leg with
an opening split of 62, and moved up in the field as he came through the 800
in 2:03. Falling back a little, but holding on nicely in time, Trimble handed
off in 3:03.9. DJ Ronde took the baton in the crowded exchange zone, running
an excellent 50.6 400 leg to keep MIT in it. Pat Marx moved up right at the
handoff, going out in 26.0 for the first 200. Settling in a little, Marx ran
54.6 at the 400 and 1:23.7 at the 600. In the final lap, Marx moved up
significantly to finish in 1:52.4. Kyle Hannon ran like a man possessed,
blasting the first 200 of the 1600 leg in 28.9. Moving up consistently
throughout the race, Hannon ran the perfect race, making all the right
decisions. His splits of 60.0, 2:01.3 and 3:04.0 brought him much closer to
the leaders. In the final 400, Hannon ran 61.6 to finish in 4:05.6 and give
MIT a time of 9:52.13. This not only surpassed the NCAA automatic standard,
but also set one of MIT's most prestigious records, formerly 9:53.16.

The remainder of the men would compete on Saturday, while the women were just
getting prepared to start. The 400 was the first event for the ladies. Portia
Jones '12, stepped to the line for her first competitive 400 of the year.
Running well, but settling a bit in the second lap, Jones had trouble getting
back up to sprint, but still managed an NCAA Division III provisional
qualifying time with her 56.80. Jamie Simmons '12, ran most of her 400 from
lane two, which affected her ability to relax. This resulted in a slower time
than expected as she ran 58.53. Martha Gross '12, still recovering from an
early season back injury, allowed a slow start and the back to get into her
head, giving her a sub-par 61.26. Megan Bumgarner ran a solid race, matching
her season best of 61.45.

The MIT women again dominated the Pole Vault, placing 1-2-6. Karin Fisher '11,
once again dominated, clearing 12-5 1/2 and having a very good attempt at
12-11. Hazel Briner '11, had trouble putting things together, but still
managed to clear 11-11 3/4. Lauren Kuntz '13, cleared 10-11 3/4.

In the 60 meter HH, Jones had a terrible start, standing up at the gun and not
running her best for the remainder of the race, but still clocking a 9.24. Amy
Magnuson 'G, had her best race of the season, even though her hamstring had
been a bit tight the week before. Her 9.20 was a nice improvement for the
former All American. Jackie Brew '14, improved her technique in the hurdles,
but not her time, running 9.52. Bumgarner did improve her time significantly,
running 9.67 for a new personal best.

Brew was the only MIT runner in the 60 meter dash and she ran a personal best
for 60 meters with a 8.20 time. Brew saved the best for last as she knocked
another seven tenths off of her 200 best, running a 26.10, the second fastest
time in MIT history.

In the Mile Run, Louise van den Heuvel '14, took the lead in the first 400,
running 75, but then settling in and letting the pack pass her as she slowed
to mid 76 for the next two quarters. In the final 400 she fought back a bit to
finish in a new personal best of 5:03.98.

Olivia Papa '14, ran a new personal best in the 800, timed in 2:20.37. Papa
led start to finish, going out a bit too fast in 32.3 and 67.8, but managed to
hold on well given she ran by herself the entire race.

The final individual race of day one for the Engineers was the 3K. Martina de
Geus '14, was trying for 80-81 second quarters and was right on pace through
1200 meters, splitting 4:04.2. She then slowed to 82-83 and then finally 85 in
the penultimate 400 before finishing with an 80 to run a new personal best of
10:17.52.

In the 4x400, the women were hoping to not have to continue to chase times all
season, intending to reach the automatic standard the first time out. Simmons
led things off with a very well run 58.1 opening leg. Briner went out to move
up on the Division I teams, splitting 27.0 for the first 200 and ran an
amazing 57.6. Gross again got out slow, but certainly competed better than in
the open 400, splitting 59.7. This put the team in fourth, about 20 meters
back when Jones received the baton. Getting out very well, Jones caught the
group immediately and covered the first 200 in 25.8. Settling once she caught
the leaders instead of going around them, she again had trouble getting back
up to sprint speed. Her 56.9 was enough to give MIT a 3:52.35, .05 under the
automatic qualify time for nationals, achieving the team goal.

On day two, things began with the women's Distance Medley Relay. The goal for
MIT was to get a fast enough time to get into the faster sections in the
championships and to get a chance to run a national qualifying time at a later
time in the season. Andrea Nickerson '14, led off the group of four freshman.
She competed well, easily running the best race of the season as she ran
3:46.0. The handoff to Bumgarner was less than ideal, but her 400 leg of 62.1
was solid enough. Papa returned to the track, again going out too fast (32.6
and 68.0). She slowed a little too much, running 74 for the final 400 to
finish in 2:22.3. Louise van den Heuvel anchored the relay, getting out well
in 74.3 for the first 400. Rather than go by the group she was behind, she
settled and the group slowed to 80 second pace. She was able to bring the pace
back to a 78 and then a 76 to finish in 5:08.1 and an overall time of
12:18.57, accomplishing the team goal and setting the freshman record.

In the men's 400, Jake Jurewicz '14, had the surprise performance for MIT,
clocking 50.49. DJ Ronde, returned from the DMR the day before to run 51.45.
Nick Leonard '11, lost his momentum when someone cut him off and was unable to
recover, finishing in 52.32.

Josh Duncavage '13, and Babajide Akinronbi '14, were representing MIT in the
sprint events, the 60 and 200. In the 60, Akinronbi ran 7.24 and Duncavage ran
7.29. Later in the 200, Duncavage ran a personal best of 22.46 and Akinronbi
knocked off more than a tenth of a second, running 22.81. The surprise for MIT
was Tyler Singer-Clarke '14. He had missed a couple meets with a strained hip
flexor, but returned to run an excellent 22.69.

The 500 was an outstanding event for MIT. David Way '13, and Mac Gager '14,
were in the same section. Both had near identical splits of 25 and 51.5 and
they finished side by side with Way edging out Gager 1:06.44 to 1:06.47, both
excellent times. Logan Daum '11, ran 1:07.39 and Gil O'Neil 1:08.36.

If the 500 was considered outstanding then the 1000 was unbelievable. No less
than four MIT runners ran faster than the 10th place on the all-time MIT list.
Hannon ran a near perfect race. Settling on the pace in the fourth lap was his
only error, causing him to get passed and put into third place briefly.
However, he rectified that situation and ran away with a 2:27.12, the second
fastest time ever for MIT. Trimble and Richard Prevost '11, were in the same
section together and ran within a couple of tenths of each other until the
final lap. Both came through the 800 in 1:59.5. Trimble made the move at the
right time and finished in the sixth best MIT time ever, a 2:28.76. Prevost
remained on the list in 10th with a new personal best of 2:29.26. Justin
Bullock '14, lowered his PR by a few seconds as he ran 2:30.51, a fantastic
time for a freshman. Andrew Erickson '12, lowered his season best to 2:33.20.

MIT only had two runners in the mile, Eric Safai '14, and Jay McKenna '14.
Safai ran a great race, splitting 65 and 2:10, before slightly twisting his
ankle, causing him to briefly slow. However, he got back on the horse, running
61.8 in the final quarter to finish in 4:19.69. McKenna ran a great strategic
race, but not a great technical one. As he tried to go faster he leaned
forward more. By the end of the race he was leaning so far over he could not
effectively sprint. His 4:26.13 was approximately what he has been racing this
year.

The 800 featured Pat Marx and his attempt to qualify for nationals, despite a
slight cold he had been nursing. Marx was seeded in the third section. The
pace went out quickly enough with a 27.2 for Marx and he was back in the pack.
He moved up a little at a time, coming through splits of 55.2 and 1:23.6. He
took the lead coming off the final turn and sprinted through the line in
1:52.49, easily exceeding the NCAA provisional standard and coming with .3 of
the automatic standard. Dawit Zewdie '13, did not get out very well in his
section of the 800 and had to run from behind. His splits were okay, running
28.7, 58.0 and 1:28.0 before he got out and kicked a bit to close in a time of
1:57.87. Jared Forman '14, recently back from injury, took the lead in his
section of the race, starting in lane six and never seeing another runner
until the finish line when he got nipped at the line in 1:59.38.

In the 4x400, MIT wanted to run fast enough to keep them among the top six
teams in New England Division III so that they would be in the fast section in
next weeks championship. Ronde led things off, but did not get out well at
all, running the first 200 in 24.6. Ronde handed off at 51.4 to Jurewicz.
Jurewicz split 23.9 and 50.4, making up a lot of ground on his opponents.
Gager took over the duties on the third leg, splitting an excellent 50.2.
Marx, only 40 minutes or so after his 800, anchored the 4x400 with an
excellent 49.4 to give the team a season best of 3:21.34.

The 3000 was the final event and Paul Welle was the lone MIT representative.
Trying to gain a faster time to make sure he gets into the faster section if
he chooses to race in the 3K next week, Welle went out with the field and
worked his way up as the pace slowed from 69 seconds per quarter to 70
seconds. Welle maintained 69 pace through 2400 meters and then picked it up to
66 pace to finish in 8:34.82, a 12 second improvement over his previous season
best.

Back at MIT there were also some excellent performances. For the women,
Chandler Schlupf '14, improved her high jump by over 3" to 4-9 3/4. Becca
Greene '14, improved a full foot in the Pole Vault to 9-6 1/4. Also, Brooke
Hamilton '14, is starting to learn the Weight Throw as she added nearly nine
inches to her personal best with a throw of 36-2 1/4.

Ken Cooper '13, led the way for the men. blasting the 35lb. weight 61-2, just
four inches away from an automatic qualifier for the NCAA Division III
Championship. Nate Peterson '12, also reached the provisional qualifying mark,
but in the pole vault. Peterson's 15-5 1/2 came just in time to put MIT in a
better position for the upcoming championship. Drew Musacchio '11, ran a
season best in the 55HH with his 8.23 performance. Mattias Flander '11, began
to return to his previous best form with his triple jump of 44-2.

Next Friday and Saturday, MIT plays host to the Women's New England Division
III Indoor Track and Field Championship while the men travel to Springfield
for the men's championship. In the women's meet, Williams College is the
favorite with MIT seeded second and in the men's meet, Bates College is
favored with MIT second. Both meets should be very interesting if MIT
continues to perform at their current level.

RETURN TO INDOORS



  
  
  |  
  



