


  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Alums, Led by Performances From Forman and Gong, Make an Impression on Varsity

December 15, 2018

This weekend, as the MIT Track & Field team members prepare for final exams,
and the alums coming from around the country to watch and compete, take a
break from their work schedules to honor the annual Alumni/ae vs. Varsity meet
that is now in its 45th year, there is one constant and that is the feeling of
family.  Whether a current member or one who graduated three decades ago, they
are all one team and nothing brings that out more than this annual affair.

After the respective team cheers, the competition got underway.  The alumnae
had an impressive team and if not for a couple empty events it looked as
though they could give their varsity counterparts a good meet.  This was
backed up by not only winning five of the six field events, but outscoring the
varsity 33 to 21 in those events despite not having any entries in the Triple
Jump.

Ariela Slutsky '18 led the way in the Weight Throw, taking first place honors
by throwing 52-04 3/4 after not having thrown the weight in nine months.
Jackie Vahey '17 took second with a 50-00 1/2 effort.  Likewise, in the Shot
Put, Isabella Stuopis '16 gets better with age, winning easily with a 40-02
3/4 throw.  Vahey again took second, throwing 37-05.

Cimmy Virdi '16 took first place in the Pole Vault, clearing 12-05 1/2.
Although they did not win, Kari Stromhaug '19 and Jacqueline Ahrens '21
vaulted well from a short approach, claiming second and third, clearing 11-11
3/4 and 11-05 3/4 respectively.

Preethi Vaidyanathan '15 won out on misses, taking first place honors in the
High Jump with a 5-03 effort.  Tying for second, Natalie Alper '17 and Liana
Reilly '21 also cleared 5-03.

In the Long Jump, Hannah Chen '18 came out of retirement to show she should
have stayed in the Long Jump while on the team.  Chen won with a jump of
16-06, outperforming Yilinn Yang '22 at 16-00 1/2 and Elena Andree '22 at
15-09.

The bright spot for the Varsity in the field events was the Triple Jump, where
Elizabeth Weeks '21 won by jumping 35-05 3/4 over teammates Lucy Lee '21 and
Yang.

On the track is where the Alumnae stumbled by not having enough entries.
Maryann Gong '17 had the most impressive victory, pulling away in the Mile to
dominate in 5:03.98.  Similiarly, Mary Eccles '18 showed she still has it,
also easily winning, taking the 5K in 18:07.11.  Katie Williams '21 placed
second for the Varsity in the Mile, running 5:13.29, slowing too much while
running in limbo once Gong pulled away.  Alana Chandler '22 ran her debut 5K
on the 200 meter track, clocking 18:49.13 for second place for the Varsity.

A much anticipated 800 meter race took place between Bailey Tregoning '19 and
Louise van den Heuvel '14. The pace was solid as van den Heuvel led the way
with a 34 first 200 and 69 400.  Tregoning and Kira Buttrey '22 were about
three meters back.  As the third lap proceeded, van den Heuvel picked up the
pace, but Tregoning was game, although Buttrey fell off.  In the final lap
Tregoning took the lead early and hammered home in 2:16.36 to win over van den
Heuvel (2:18.28).

Alexandra Taylor '14 put on a good show in the 400, leading the way through
nearly 300 meters.  However, Claire Melvin '22 took over to win in 62.65 and
Kristen Frombach '19 passed Taylor for second on the home stretch, edging her
out 63.24 to 63.72.

Michelle Menkiti '20 was the one double winner for the varsity, claiming first
place in the 60 in 8.00 and in the 200 in  26.54.  The junior also led off in
the 4x200 Relay, giving her teammates (Andree, Sarah Ishamuddin '21 and
Melvin) a lead they did not relinquish in running 1:50.11.  The final score
was Varsity 73, Alumnae 47.

Also competing for the alumnae were Stephanie Birkhimer '14 (60, Long Jump,
Shot Put), Julia Sharpe '09 (High Jump), Jen Tylock '17 (Pole Vault), Emily
Cole '09 (Pole Vault), Christine Labaza '14 (Shot Put).

The Alumni did not have the numbers to pull out of victory, but they certainly
brought heart.  The "Has-Beens" pulled out three victories in the meet.  The
best by far was Jared Forman's '13 shocker in the 800.  Forman's MIT personal
best for the indoor 800 was 1:55.77, which was run on a banked track.  When
Aiden Foucault-Etheridge went screaming out in 56.5 and Forman was hanging
back in a safe 58, it did not seem likely he might win.  However, Foucault-
Etheridge paid for his high energy expenditure in the early part of the race,
slowing to a 32.5 final 200 while Forman drove home to victory in 1:57.85,
inspiring his teammates.  Foucault-Etheridge finished in second in 1:59.01 and
Ellery Rajagopal '21 ran an indoor PR of 1:59.51.

Chris Sweeney '18, only out a year, has not lost much in the high hurdles.
Although Joa Kennedy '21 talked a good game, Sweeney pulled away easily,
winning 8.52 to 8.89.  Getting third was Nick Leonard '11 running 10.19.

The final alumni victory was earned by Arinze Okeke '16, who led an "old guy"
sweep, jumping 45-04 1/2 in the Triple Jump.  With Yorai Shaoul '21 not
jumping, the Varsity had no entries in the event.  Sweeney and Kyle Hannon '13
added their names to the event (not necessarily their skills since neither had
ever done the event) at the last minute to place second (33-08) and third
(33-01).

Tyler Singer-Clark '14 placed second in the 60 (7.51) and third in the 200
(24.34) to earn his team four points.  Also competing in the 60 and 200 were
Hannon, Leonard, David Blau '06 and Matt Barron '13.  Winning the 60 was Alex
Liu '22, running 7.31.

Danny Newman '17 earned a second for the Alumni in the 400, running 53.85 to
close out the scoring for the alums in the running events.  Claiming first in
the 200 and 400 was Nick Duchatellier '22, running 24.12 and 52.88
respectively.

Matthew Kearney '22 won the Mile in 4:27.71, leading from start to finish,
slightly negative splitting the race.  Jake Jorgensen '21 was a solid second
in 4:30.07.  Competing for the Alumni were Nicholas Waltman '18 and Kimathi
Foster '98.

Andrew Mah '22 negative split the 5K to win in 15:41.31.  With no one willing
to take the lead, Mah moved to the front despite the 39 second first 200.
Mah, just coming off a buildup to base mileage, ran a conservative first mile
of 5:14 and then ran a solid 4:56, finishing with a 4:53 although he did
struggle over the final 600 meters.  Finn Jacobson-Schulte '21 had a
breakthrough, claiming second with a 16:03.42.  Competing for the Alumni were
Rory Beyer '17 and Roy Wedge '14.

Jon Fakkema '19 was the other double winner for the Varsity, taking first
place in both the Shot Put and the Weight Throw.  Fakkema took the Shot Put
with a solid 46-03 1/4 effort.  Cody Bratten '18 represented the Alums with a
second place 43-00 1/4 performance.  Also competing for the Alums was Matt
Falk '12.  Fakkema's primary event, the Weight Throw was challenged a bit by
teammate Albert Menio '20, who threw a strong 49-02 1/2.  Fakkema threw 52-03
3/4. Ryan Nall '22 earned a Varsity sweep with his 43-06 1/2.

Shaoul won the Long Jump with a mammoth indoor personal best of 22-05 from a
short approach.  Okeke took second place with 21-01 1/2.  Thad Wozniak '06
just missed scoring, taking fourth at 18-06.

Only Nate Sharpe '09 prevented a Varsity sweep in the Pole Vault.  Liam
Ackermann '21 won by clearing 14-07 1/4, the same height as second place Scott
Cameron '19.  Sharpe cleared 13-05 1/4, tying Everett Brandyberry '21 for
third. Also competing for the Alumni were Marshall Wentworth '16, Dan Kwon '02
and Than Bogan '93.

The Varsity earned another sweep in the High Jump.  Alec Reduker '20 won with
a jump of 6-04.  Steven Speck '20 cleared 6-02 for second and Sope Eweje '20
took third at 6-00.  Falk and Bogan competed for the Alumni.  The final score
was Varsity 87.5, Alumni 33.5.

Those Alums in attendance offering support were Javit Drake '94, Josh
Duncavage '13, Harrison Hunter '15, Eric Khatchadourian '06, Maggie Lloyd '12,
Elaine McVay '16, Ryan Prinster '18, Henry Tareque '17, Tom Washington '92,
Benji Xie '15 and Nicole Zeinstra '16.

MIT's next competition will be a home contest versus Division III rivals,
Bates College and Colby College on January 12.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

MIT Track & Field Teams Remain Undefeated

January 19, 2019

Some athletic teams look at the situation they are in when faced with injuries
and illnesses and choose to focus on individual performances, particularly in
a sport such as track & field, which is often considered an individual sport
anyway.  MIT's decades of success defy that attitude and approach to the sport
of track and field.  If the "next person up" philosophy ever fit a team it is
so for the Men's and Women's Track & Field teams at MIT.

Faced with a most unusual amount and assortment of illnesses and injuries the
Engineers traveled to Bowdoin College amidst the threat of winter storm
Harper.  With a relatively small roster competing, and a scoring system of
10-8-6-4-2-1 for each event in the six-team invitational, it would be critical
to get the majority of the top three places whenever possible.  However, the
competition was strong with teams from Tufts, Bowdoin, Brandeis, Southern
Maine and Merrimack.

The Engineers did just that.  Among the 18 events, the men garnered 10 first
place finishes, four second places and seven third places, which totaled 174
points, comprising most of the 206 points earned by Tech.  Tufts and Southern
Maine who were both very close after eight events, failed to finish well,
scoring 101 and 81 respectively.  The women earned five first places finishes,
six second places and three third places for 116 points, but added 10 fourth
places for 156 of their 170 points.  Bowdoin was second with 131 and Tufts
close behind with 129.5.

While the men showed excellent balance, scoring in every event, there was
major domination by the Engineers in the throws and distance events.  Jon
Fakkema '19 brought home a double victory, taking the Weight Throw with a toss
of 53-7 and out-dueling teammate Will Woltmann '22 in their weekly Shot Put
battle with a PR of 48-10 1/4.  The throwers (Fakkema, Woltmann, Albert Menio
'20, Ryan Nall '22 and Nathan Basinger '22) earned 43 of a possible 62 points.

The distance runners were led by Josh Rosenkranz '19.  The senior set out in
the 5K with a one man plan to run sub 14:45 on the flat 200 meter track.  At
the gun Rosenkranz totally dismissed his competition, led off with a 34 first
lap and then strung together 18 laps of 35 seconds as he passed 3200 meters in
9:20.  He did not fade until 4200 meters where he ran three 36 second laps
before closing in another 35 to lap the field in 14:38.70, a time that should
get him into the NCAA Division III Championship in March.  Backing up
Rosenkranz's performance, teammates Steven Goldy '20 and Billy Woltz '20
earned second and third in 15:26.01 and 15:30.35 respectively.  In the 3K,
Matthew Kearney '22 patiently sat on the leaders through 2000 meters and then
blasted a 2:50 final 1000 to easily win in 8:50.63.  Nicky Medearis '22 placed
third in 8:55.76 and Zach Johnson '22 returned to racing with a 9:00.39 as the
all freshman group brought home 17 points.

Despite not having their top two high jumpers, Caleb Harris '22 led a trio of
MIT jumpers to a 1-3-4 finish.  Harris jumped 6-6 3/4 for the victory while
Steven Speck '20 placed third at 6-2 3/4 and Sope Eweje '20 earned fourth,
also at 6-2 3/4.

Yorai Shaoul '21 only took three of his six triple jump efforts and four of
his six long jump attempts, but that is more than he needed.  The two-time
national runner-up won the triple in a leap of 48-4 3/4 and the long in a
personal best 23-2 3/4 for 20 total points.

Simon Alford '20 returned to racing after a layoff from injury, but looked as
though he never missed anything.  The junior bided his time in a strategically
paced 800 then closed well to win in 1:58.78.  At the end of the meet,
anchoring a 4x800 of Kent Slaney '21, Matt Schofield '22, and Ellery Rajagopal
'21, Alford buried a 1:57.3 to win going away in 8:06.18.

Benton Wilson '21 added a victory and a second place in the sprints.  The
sophomore, recently returned to good health, ran a personal best in the 60
Meter Dash to place second in 7.11 and then returned in the 200 to easily win
in a season best 22.51.

The women showed strong balance throughout the events, but showed particular
strength in the horizontal jumps and pole vault.  In the Long Jump, Yilinn
Yang '22 finished second with a best jump of 16-11 1/4.  Tema Nwana '21 also
jumped 16-11 1/4, but took third based on the second best jump.  Elena Andree
'22 added a fourth place at 16-8 3/4 and Sarah Ishamuddin '21 placed sixth
with a jump of 16-5 1/4.  Earlier in the meet, Ishamuddin, Andree and Yang
comprised three legs of the 4x200 relay anchored by Bailey Tregoning '19,
winning in 1:49.38.  Ishamuddin also added a fifth place in the 200 in 27.39,
winning her section uncontested. In the Triple Jump, Elizabeth Weeks '21 won a
tie-breaker with teammate Lucy Lee '21 to place second and third respectively
at 36-0 1/4.  Andree added a fourth place with a jump of 35-11 1/4.  The
horizontal jumpers earned 37 points in the two events.

Kari Stromhaug '19 continued to show her dominance in the Pole Vault, winning
with a jump of 11-11 3/4.  Jacqueline Ahrens '21 earned second place at 10-11
3/4 and Anais Marenco '22 jumped a season best 10-11 3/4 for fourth.  Lila
Wine '21 added a sixth place to give the Engineers 23 points in the event.

In addition to successfully anchoring the winning 4x200 Relay, Tregoning added
a victory in the 800, pulling away in the final 300 meters to win in 2:18.77,
just in front of teammate Marissa McPhillips '20, who placed second in
2:19.18.  McPhillips returned to anchor a winning 4x800 Relay comprised of
Kira Buttrey '22, Katie Collins '21 and Skylar Brooks '20 in 9:46.19.
Tregoning anchored a fourth place 4x400 Relay (Kristen Frombach '19, Claire
Melvin '22, Margaret Trautner '20) with a 60.6 anchor for a 4:09.90 overall
performance.

The remaining individual victory was earned by Jenna Melanson '20 who led the
5K from start to finish.  The junior went out a little too fast, starting off
with a 38 initial 200, followed by a few 41-42 second 200's to hit the 1600 in
5:30, which was the planned overall pace, but not the planned path to get
there.  The initial pace and lack of competition made it difficult to hold
onto the pace.  Melanson slowed, coming through 3200 in 11:11 and the 4800 in
17:14.  However running 17:59.51 was still a solid race to build off of as the
two-time Steeplechase All American attempts to qualify in the 5K later in the
season.

Next weekend MIT will split their team, sending some of the oval track
athletes to Boston University for the John Thomas Terrier Classic, and the
field event athletes along with the sprinters and hurdlers to Tufts University
for the Branwen Smith-King Invitational.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Is This Version of MIT Track & Field of Championship Caliber?

February 1-2, 2018

MIT Track & Field has dominated New England Division III Track & Field for
much of the past 10 years, particularly over the past five years where the
women have won three of the past five indoor titles and six consecutive
outdoor titles while the men have also won three of the past five indoor
titles as well as the past five outdoor titles.  However, both the men and
women finished second last year, the men losing to Tufts and the women to
Williams in the Indoor Championship.  While many of the stars from the past
years are still performing at a championship caliber, some are not quite there
as yet, mentally or physically.  In addition to the injuries that have
sidelined some national level student-athletes, there may not be the necessary
depth to handle the relays and extra points that are part of any successful
championship team unless some others show more consistency.

A few field athletes representing MIT competed at the New England
Intercollegiate Amateur Athletic Association (NEICAAA) Championship being held
at the Reggie Lewis Center in Boston while most of the team who were not
taking the weekend off from competing, competed at Tufts University in the
Cupid Challenge.  At Reggie Lewis, Kari Stromhaug '19 led the way for Tech,
placing second in the Pole Vault with a season best 12-5 1/2, placing her
fourth on the NCAA D3 list.  Placing fourth was freshman Anais Marenco '22,
clearing a personal best of 12-1 1/2 to join MIT's indoor top-ten list.
Jacqueline Ahrens '21, still trying to figure out what is missing, cleared
11-7 3/4.

The other athlete who placed at the NEICAAA Championship was Yorai Shaoul '21,
who placed fifth in the Long Jump.  Although he was credited with a 23-2
performance, the sophomore had a foul or two that were in the 24 foot range.

Over at Tufts, there were strong performances, as well as some that showed
potential but were thwarted by inward thinking or poor strategy.  Andrew Mah
'22 got things going in the strong performances category for MIT in the 5K.
The freshman had been down with a knee irritation for the past three weeks,
but showed that his competitiveness could overcome a lack of fitness, at least
for most of the race.  Going out with the leaders, although at the back of the
pack, Mah ran a very well paced first 1600 in 4:42.  As those in front of him
slowed, Mah moved up in the field with a second 1600 in 4:41.  He continued
this pace for the next 800 meters before the fatigue hit him and hit him big.
He did not lose focus, so was able to hold onto 73-74 pace for the final 1000
to finish in fourth in 14:49.27.  In the next section, Finn Jacobson-Schulte
'21 had a big breakthrough and Alex Knoedler '18 made his season debut upon
his return from injury.  Jacobson-Schulte not only put himself in a nice
racing position with 5:00 pace the entire race, finishing in 15:36.28--a huge
personal best.  Knoedler was a second or two ahead of Jacobson-Schulte through
3600 meters, but tightened up in the final 1400, finishing a solid 15:41.42.
Emily Skilling '21 ran a personal best in the 5K by being very aggressive and
racing intelligently, but without concern for "dying" in the race.  Similar to
Mah, she established a solid pace and moved up as the field fell off, running
5:53 for the first 1600 and 5:51 for the second 1600.  Also similar to Mah,
she fell off a lot even though she never lost focus, racing the entire way.
Her final 1600 was 5:59, closing with a very tired 47 for an 18:30.55.

Matthew Kearney '22 continued to show no fear when racing.  In the fast
section of the Mile, he, Aidan Gilson '19 and Kent Slaney '21 all were racing
to make the fast section of the Mile in the New England Division III
Championship in three weeks, and possibly the NCAA Division III Championship
in five weeks.  The pacer took the pack out fast, but Gilson had a poor start
and got pushed back.  Regardless, at the 200 mark he was in fourth place in a
solid position.  At the 400 Gilson was at 62.0, Kearney at 62.1 and Slaney at
62.5.  The second 400 was status quo for all three although the pace slowed
slightly with all three between 2:05.7 and 2:06.4.  However, in the third
quarter Kearney was aggressive, moving up to 3:11 while both Gilson and Slaney
started thinking about themselves, losing the focus and falling back to 3:14.
Kearney fell off from fatigue due to an overall lack of fitness and speed due
to his time out with injury, but still ran 4:19.56.

Similarly, Margaret Trautner '20 an outstanding middle-distance runner,
already qualified for the NCAA DIII Championship in the 800, wanted to race
the Mile.  Although she knows there is no pace that could be thrown at her by
anyone in the meet that she could not handle, after a 72 first 400, she
disengaged completely.  She ran a solid 5:10.30 for second place, but did not
take advantage of a great opportunity to run a national level time in the
Mile.

In a series of poor strategic moves, or a total lack of strategy, a few MIT
athletes took the lead from the start at an unrealistic pace, setting
themselves up for failure.  This certainly indicated poor coaching at the very
least.  Nick Duchatellier '22 was hoping for fast 600 so he could make the
NED3 fast section, but going out in 24.8 pretty much ended that dream.  The
freshman still held on reasonably well, although his final 400 in 61.3 had to
hurt.  Then in the 800 Ellery Rajagopal '21 did the same thing, going out in
27.8, far into the lead of his section.  Although he finished in an indoor
personal best of 1:59.06 for third place in his section, one has to wander
what he could have run had he paced a little slower.  Finally Simon Alford
'20, a very experienced runner and defending NED3 champion in the 1000, was
out too fast around the first turn when his coach hollered not to lead.
Alford thought he was told to lead so continued the pace he was on, coming
through the 200 in 29.3 and the 400 in 58.9.  As expected the pain hit early
and the junior fell back to 2:36.40.

In positive races, Bailey Tregoning '19 and Marissa McPhillips '20 dominated
their respective races.  Tregoning paced out to a 31.6 first 200 of her 600
race, taking a sizable lead en route to a 1:38.22 victory.  McPhillips paced
out a 35.2 initial 200 for her 1000 meter race.  She only deviated slightly as
she came through the 800 in 2:21.4 on the way to her 2:58.15 victory.

Also on the track, Benton Wilson '21 blazed his way to a meet record in the
200 with a 22.21 gun to finish victory.  This was a very fast time on a flat
track, converting to a 21.82 banked track time, ranking him 10th in NCAA DIII.

In the field events, Will Woltmann '22 had a big day, throwing personal bests
in both the Shot Put and Weight Throw.  In the Shot, Woltmann won the event
with a 49-5 1/2 throw, good for eighth on the all-time MIT list.  Supporting
him, his teammates placed third, fourth, fifth and seventh.  In fourth, Albert
Menio '20 threw an excellent PR of 44-0 1/2.  In the women's Shot Put, Lily
Papalia '22 threw a season best 35-8 3/4 for fourth place.

In the Weight Throw, Woltmann threw a best of 47-9 1/4, good for fifth place.
Jon Fakkema '19 placed second with a throw of 55-2 3/4 and Menio placed
fourth.

Scott Cameron '19 was back to his winning ways, taking the Pole Vault in a
season best 14-11.  Emily Caragay '22 cleared a season best 10-11 3/4.

Lucy Lee '21 won the Triple Jump with a jump of 36-5 as the MIT women ruled
the event, placing 1-2-3.

Next week, MIT will send their faster oval runners to the Boston University
David Hemery Valentine's Classic, leave most of their field event athletes to
their own Gordon Kelly Invitational, and give quite a few the weekend off from
competing.  The Engineers hope to put their act together in time to position
themselves for a chance to win another NED3 title.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Ackerman and DMR Qualify for Nationals

March 2, 2019

MIT sent a few individuals over to Tufts today for the Tufts University Final
Qualifier, the last opportunity to achieve an NCAA Division III qualifying
performance.  These individuals were on the bubble of making the top 20 in
their event or the top 12 in a relay.  There are a handful of these meets
around the country, which must be approved by the NCAA for this final weekend
of competition.  Colleges came from Ohio, Virginia, Georgia, New Jersey and
New York, as well as many New England colleges to compete at Tufts.

The Pole Vault was one of the most successful events for the Engineers. Anais
Marenco '22 cleared 12-2 1/2 to move up to #15 on the NCAA list. MIT already
had Kari Stromhaug '19 at ninth on the list, and Jacqueline Ahrens '21 at
19th.  Sending three individuals to Nationals in one event is quite
impressive.

On the men's side, Liam Ackerman '21 added to last week's impressive results
by winning the Pole Vault, clearing a personal best of 16-0 to move on to the
National Championship.  This performance moves Ackerman up to eighth on the
NCAA list.

The men's DMR, after running a solid time last weekend without Aidan Gilson
'19 or Benton Wilson '21, followed through with their plan to race at this
meet, which typically qualifies nearly half the NCAA field each year.  Simon
Alford '20 led off with the 1200 leg.  Alford positioned himself well, but
started getting dropped by the top three teams after a 2:03.0 800, which
should not happen to the 1:54 half-miler. He held onto fourth, finishing in a
credible 3:04.4. Benton Wilson got the baton for the 400 leg and quickly put a
dent in the lead.  At the end of his 48.8 leg Wilson had closed the gap,
handing off to Aiden Foucault-Etheridge just behind the front three teams.
Foucault-Etheridge did not hesitate to move up and did so effectively with his
55.3 opening 400.  He then took the lead handing off to Gilson with a slight
lead and a 1:53.3 leg.  Gilson took the lead when he should have allowed the
Middlebury miler to lead. The pack was happy to let Gilson lead despite the
slow splits of 63 and 2:07.  Gilson fell back when the leaders moved, but
rallied to finish the final 200 hard.  His 4:16 split was less than stellar,
but was enough for third place in 9:59.61, the sixth fastest time in the
country.

Jon Fakkema '19 was unable to move up from his 22nd ranking in the Weight
Throw with his 59-2 performance from earlier in the season, but he did throw a
PR in the Shot Put with his 50-5 1/4 effort.  Albert Menio '20 did not make it
to finals in the Weight Throw, but he did throw a personal best of 52-2 1/2.

In the Triple Jump, Lucy Lee '21 jumped a personal best 36-9 3/4, just ahead
of teammate Elizabeth Weeks '21 who jumped 36-4 3/4, although she narrowly
fouled a 38+ jump.

Going into the NCAA Division III Championship at the Reggie Lewis Center in
Boston next Friday and Saturday, the men will be represented by Yorai Shaoul
'21 in the Triple Jump (#2), Alec Reduker '20 in the High Jump (#2), DMR team
of Simon Alford, Benton Wilson, Aiden Foucault-Etheridge, and Aidan Gilson
(#6), Liam Ackerman in the Pole Vault (#8), Gilson in the Mile (#9), Josh
Rosenkranz '19 in the 5K (#11) and Wilson in the 200 (#16).  Representing the
women will be the #5 DMR team of Margaret Trautner '20, Sarah Ishamuddin '21,
Bailey Tregoning '19 and Marissa McPhillips '20, Katie Collins '21 in the 5K
(#6), McPhillips in the Mile (#8), Kari Stromhaug in the Pole Vault (#9),
Trautner in the 800 (#11), Jenna Melanson '20 in the 3K (#13), Tregoning in
the 800 (#15), Anais Marenco '22 in the Pole Vault (#15) and Jacqueline Ahrens
'21 in the Pole Vault (#19).

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Men's and Women's Teams "Compete" Their Way to 2-0 Records

January 12, 2018

Entering their first intercollegiate meet of the season, a tri-meet with Bates
College and Colby College, the Women's Indoor Track & Field team was
relatively healthy (missing six key student-athletes) and favored to win.  The
Men's team was down nine key contributors and two more were limited in their
return to competition.  In addition, with the scoring system preferred by the
NCAA, MIT's strength and depth in many events would not count, as only two
individuals from each team could score per event.  Based on the seeds going
into the meet, the men were underdogs to Bates College.

The emphasis for Tech was to focus on competing, not how fast, how far or how
high one performed.  Beat their opponents in the majority of opportunities and
MIT would have a chance to win both meets.

In the first round of field events MIT showed their domination. Yorai Shaoul
'21 got things started in the Long Jump with a jump of 22-7, even though his
full approach was somewhat limited by the Shot Put barriers.  Unfortunately
due to three of the injuries, only one of which was sport related, MIT only
had one jumper, thus giving up certain points.

In the aforementioned Shot Put, Freshman Will Woltmann and Jon Fakkema '19 did
battle, pushing each other to personal bests and to finish 1-2 for the
Engineers.  Woltmann took the lead on his second throw.  Fakkema then took the
lead on his fourth throw.  Woltmann improved on his fifth throw, but not
enough to take the lead and the Bates' thrower moved into second place on his
throw.  On his final throw, Woltmann threw 48-02 1/2 to win it over Fakkema's
48-00 3/4, which was good for second.

In the Pole Vault, Liam Ackerman '21 led the way for MIT with a personal best
victory of 15-05 1/2.  Scott Cameron '19 took second with a vault of 14-5 1/4.
MIT took the top five places, although they only earned points for the top
two.

Meanwhile on the track, MIT failed to take advantage of one of their premier
events, the Mile Run.  Billy Woltz '20 took the lead from the start, but did
nothing with it, allowing the initial 400 to be a pedestrian 68 seconds.  Even
at the pace, Ryan Nealis of Bates, and Aidan Gilson '19, Matthew Kearney '22
and Woltz of MIT separated themselves from the rest of the pack.  After the
400 Woltz picked up the pace, coming through the 800 in 2:12.  With three laps
to go it looked as though Nealis could have been broken as he was at the back
of the quartet, allowing a 10 meter lead to open up at one point when Gilson
took the lead.  However, Gilson slowed, allowing Nealis to get back in the
race and dominate in the final 200 to easily pull away.  Gilson was second in
4:23.81 and Kearney third in 4:24.17.

With Joa Kennedy '21 injured, MIT had no hurdlers, giving up 12 points to
Bates in the 7-5-4-3-2-1 scoring format.  The Engineers knew they had to gain
some points in the 400 and 600, events that could go either way.  In the 400
Ken Acquah '20 stepped up, ran a very competitive race, and even though the
time was not particularly fast, his 53.50 earned a very important second
place.  In the 600, Aidan Foucault-Etheridge '22 gave a glimpse of just what
kind of competitor he is going to be.  With an already quick pace of sub 27 at
the 200, as the pace slowed on the next turn, Foucault-Etheridge opened up his
stride and powered to a 53.8 400 en route to an easy victory in 1:23.44.  Nick
Duchatellier '22, just returning from bronchitis, managed a third in 1:27.88,
.09 ahead of fourth place.

Alex Liu '22 made the finals of the 60 Meter Dash, finishing third in the
trials.  He then finished second in 7.25 to provide an unexpected point.

Kent Slaney '21 may have put a stamp on the start of his sophomore season.
Dropping down to the 800 he took control of the race with 400 meters to go
when he passed teammate Ellery Rajagopal '21 on the inside.  Outkicking two
Bates runners, Slaney won in 2:00.82.

Woltz rebounded from his Mile loss to win the 1000.  With 600 meters to go
after a very slow first 400 of 63, Kearney took the lead and Woltz followed,
taking the lead on the backstretch and never looking back, finishing in
2:35.37.

Back to the field events, Shaoul was up again in the Triple Jump.  Not having
taken any triple jumps this year, Shaoul showed he was ready to take up where
he left off last year--finishing as NCAA Division III runner-up at both the
Indoor and Outdoor championships.  He only took two jumps, but won easily at
48-4, a mark that will easily qualify him for the NCAA Division III
Championship in March.

The Weight Throw went in favor of the Engineers as Fakkema threw a near PR of
56-0 1/2 and Albert Menio '20 placed fourth with a throw of 48-9 1/2.

The High Jump could not have gone much better for Tech.  Not only did Caleb
Harris '22 break through with a 6-05 1/2 second place finish, but Alec Reduker
'20 won the event with a 6-07 1/2 clear, and barely missed 6-09 1/2

Still trailing Bates College, mostly due to no entries in the hurdles and one
entry in the horizontal jumps and the 60, MIT knew they had to continue to
dominate.  With Colby not taking many of the top places, even if MIT went 1-2
and Bates were to get the next two places the event points would be 12-7.  In
the 200, Benton Wilson '21, in his first competition after returning from
injury looked as though he has not lost a step.  He established a clear
advantage right out of the blocks and proceeded to blow away the competition,
running 22.75 for the victory.  In addition, Liu added a critical third in
24.19.

The 3K could ice the meet for MIT with a 1-2 finish, but Bates had a very
capable runner in James Jones who had finished second in the New England
region in Cross Country and earned All America honors at the NCAA Division III
Championship.  The strategy was to let Bates establish the pace.
Unfortunately they were content to let the pace crawl at 75 seconds for the
first 400.  Josh Derrick '20 took the lead for MIT to push up the pace a bit,
which he did for about 800 meters.  When the pace slowed again Andrew Mah '22
and Josh Rosenkranz '19 took over and dropped the hammer.  The pace dropped to
68 then 65 and finished with a 32 final 200 for an 8:43.36 for Mah and 8:43.59
for Rosenkranz, providing the 1-2 desired finish.

The 4x400, a mish-mash of available healthy runners was not aware the outcome
of the meet had been decided.  Diego Escobedo '22, Gilson, Andrew Shao '22
gave Foucault-Etheridge the baton about 15 meters down from Bates.  Foucault-
Etheridge had one thought--win.  He made up most of the difference in the
first 150, then made a mad dash at the end of the straight to take the lead
with a 24.1 first 200 and only lengthened the difference all the way to the
finish line with a 51.0 split.  The men won the meet 149 to 140 for Bates and
24 for Colby.

The women dominated from the start and unlike the men's meet, Colby somewhat
impacted Bates ability to stay close by taking some of those points.

Similar to the men, the women began by taking control of the field events.  In
the Long Jump, Sarah Ishamuddin '21 took the lead on her third attempt to win
with a jump of 16-7 3/4.  In the High Jump, Margaret Redfield '21 did not miss
an attempt through 5-0 1/4, as did Elise Lambert of Bates.  At 5-2 1/4, both
missed, but Redfield won the jump-off, clearing 5-01 1/2.  While they did lose
their first field event of the meet, Lily Papalia '22 came through with a
second place throw of 34-5 and Folusho Jebutu '20 added a fourth place effort
of 29-3 3/4 from a power position due to a slight injury.

On the track, Katie Bacher '20 and fellow juniors, Marissa McPhillips and
Jenna Melanson dominated the Mile Run.  Controlling the pace, negative
splitting from an 85 first 400 to a 78 then 77 and finally a 71 for a 5:11.16
victory Bacher ruled the event.  McPhillips ran 5:14.25 for second place and
Melanson ran 5:17.39 for third.

For the next two events, the 60HH and the 400, Bates College made up some of
the point disadvantage.  Lucy Lee '21 ran a nice season best of 9.79 in the
60HH to earn third place, which was all that was expected.

In the 400 Claire Melvin '22 came from far back to place second in 62.87.
Kristen Frombach '19 took the pace out a little too fast, splitting 29.1 and
then could not hold on to the lead, but did manage third in 63.48.

Bailey Tregoning '19 got MIT back on the winning track in the 600.  She took
control right from the start, running a pretty even pace of 33.5, 32.2, 33.0
to run 1:38.83 for the win.

The 60 Meter Dash was the Michelle Menkiti '20 show even though she took an
injury from the event.  The junior won the trials in 7.90, a huge personal
best.  However, in the final, after 40 meters, she slowed, clearly feeling a
pulling in her hamstring.  She cruised across the line with a  8.10 victory,
but was now out of the 200.  Yilinn Yang '22 was able to add a key third place
in 8.44 after running 8.35 in the trials.

Back to the field events, MIT continued its domination.  Kari Stromhaug '19
led a 1-2-3-4 finish in the Pole Vault, clearing 12-1 1/2.  Jacqueline Ahrens
'21 placed second at 11-7 3/4.

The Triple Jump was also a 1-2-3-4 MIT finish.  Jasmine Jin '20 took the lead
on her first jump of 35-2, and that mark held.  Elizabeth Weeks '21 earned
second with her jump of 34-11 3/4.

Jebutu nearly won the Weight Throw, missing first place by 5.5".  The junior
threw 46-10 1/4.  Papalia earned fourth, throwing 38-0.

There was literally no competition in the 800, as Bacher and Margaret Trautner
'20 were the only two in the race.  The pair worked together, gradually
picking up the pace.  Bacher edged Trautner at the finish, 2:23.47 to 2:23.51.

Being the first meet of the season and with everyone just coming off a three
week break for exams and the holidays, combined with the competition being
more important that actual performances, few of the running events were
expected to be fast, and for the most part that held true.  One that was not
slow was the women's 1000.  Ayden Eickhoff of Bates set the pace and never
looked back, winning in 2:57.19.  Kira Buttrey '22 went strong and stayed with
Eickhoff, running 2:59.12 for second place.  McPhillips returned from the Mile
to secure third place in 3:00.09.

Without Menkiti in the 200, Ishamuddin came through.  She came over from the
Triple Jump to place second in the 200 in 27.95.

The 3K was another excellent race for MIT.  Katie Collins '21 and Gabby Enns
'21 took the lead at the gun, establishing a pace of 82.5 seconds per quarter.
Helen Chavey of Colby was right behind them.  Chavey had beaten Collins in the
NCAA Division III New England Region championship by one place, finishing
11th.  Collins made certain that did not happen on this day as she held the
pace throughout the race to win in 10:19.12.  Enns also ran a very competitive
race, earning third in a big PR of 10:30.42.

Frombach (63.8), Bacher (65.4), Melvin (62.6) and Trautner (62.7) placed
second in the 4x400 and Buttrey (2:24.0), Tessa Weiss '20 (2:26.9), Skylar
Brooks '20 (2:34.1) and Tregoning (2:21.0) won the 4x800 Relay.

The final score of the meet was MIT 155, Bates 117, Colby 60.

Next week, MIT travels to Bowdoin College in Brunswick, ME to face Bowdoin,
Brandeis, Merrimack, Southern Maine and Tufts in a 6-way scoring meet.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

## Two More Elite 90 Winners, 15 All Americans Add to MIT Legacy



March 8-9, 2019

This was not the best team MIT Track & Field has ever sent to the NCAA
Division III Indoor Championship, but it certainly was close, and among those
that represented the program well with the number of events represented and
the effort given at the championship.  At the end of the two days, the men
finished with 22 points, good for seventh place and seven All Americans.  The
women completed the championship with eight All Americans and 15 points, tying
for 11th place overall.

The championship week began with the awards presented to the regional athletes
of the season and the Elite 90 awards, which are given to the individual
female and male at that championship with the highest GPA.  If there is a tie
it goes to the one with the most academic units.  Despite the fact that MIT
student-athletes do not receive the credits for their first semester in their
freshman year due to the Pass/No Record status, the MIT Track & Field / Cross
Country program has had nine previous Elite 90 winners, by far more than any
other program in the country.  Margaret Trautner '20 and Josh Rosenkranz '19
added to that total, both winning the award for the first time, marking the
third time the program had both the male and female winner at the same
championship.  Yorai Shaoul '21 was awarded the Male Field Athlete of the Year
for his amazing performances in the horizontal jumps.

The championship itself began for MIT with the Men's Pole Vault.  Liam
Ackerman '21 entered the championship as the ninth seed.  After struggling at
15-1, needing three attempts to clear the bar, Ackerman looked great.  He
cleared 15-7 on his first attempt and then 15-11 on his second attempt.  At
16-0 3/4 and 16-2 3/4 he cleared on his first attempt, even though both were
personal bests.  He was unable to clear 16-4 3/4, which earned him fourth
place for MIT.

In the High Jump, Alec Reduker '20 cleared 6-6 3/4 on his first attempt, but
just did not have it at 6-8, placing him 10th out of the 20 jumpers.

In the running events, Aidan Gilson '19 was attempting the difficult potential
triple of Mile trials, DMR anchor, Mile finals if he made it that far.  Day
one had the Mile trials and the DMR.  In the trials, often a strategic race,
it was a solid pace up front as Gilson was in second place through splits of
64, 2:07 and 3:10.  When the pace picked up, Gilson, running in the second
heat, knew what he needed to run and managed that with a 4:11.22 to slide into
the finals.

Benton Wilson '21 was the 15th seed entering the 200.  This race is often
decided by the lane received on a random basis.  Only lanes 3, 4, 5 and 6 are
used, because the further out a runner is the less curve and less forces the
runner has to deal with.  Blessed all year with receiving lanes five or six,
Wilson was given lane three this time.  Despite the lane, Wilson ran an
excellent 22.03 for 12th overall, missing finals by exactly 1/10th of a
second.

Josh Rosenkranz '19, racing the 5K, had been struggling with an aggravated
achilles for much of the season, limiting his mileage and workouts.  Not able
to do workouts the past two weeks, not much was expected of the senior, but he
gave his best effort.  Through 3200 meters at 9:24, Rosenkranz was with the
leaders and looking solid, but then his achilles and lack of fitness both
showed.  To try and save his upcoming outdoor season he made the decision to
not finish the race.

In the final race of the evening, the DMR quartet was hoping for a great race.
Simon Alford '20 led off with the 1200 leg.  Alford started out great with
excellent position in 30.2 for the first 200.  The pace slowed and Alford
allowed many to pass him, putting him at 2:04.8 at the 800 mark.  He then
accelerated hard on the backstretch, taking the lead with 200 to go, but was
unable to hold it, falling off considerably as he handed off at 3:06.7 in
ninth place.  Wilson took the baton and made up a lot of ground, moving the
team up to sixth with his 49.3 400 leg.  Aiden Foucault-Etheridge '22 ran a
flawless race, moving up consistently with a 400 split of 55.5 and a final
time of 1:53.9 to edge into third place.  Gilson took the baton and despite a
61.5 first 400 he fell back.  His 2:06.5 had him back to sixth place and his
3:15.2 put him back in ninth, one place out of All American status.  The
senior dug down and found a little something extra for his teammates, dropping
a 59.3 to move his team to sixth place with a 4:14.9 and 10:04.82 overall
time.

The women's first day began with Jenna Melanson '20 in the 3K.  When the NCAA
went to 20 athletes per event at the National Championship, this forced the 3K
to go from a final only on Saturday to trials and finals on Friday/Saturday
due to the rule that dictate how many runners can be in a one section final.
This significantly changed the landscape of those who had raced the 5K/3K
double in the past.  Melanson, a solid seed, fell into the trap of taking the
trials lightly, which means she had little to no adrenaline helping her.  Her
heat ran a solid pace of 40 seconds per 200 throughout the race, which was
faster than the first section.  With the top four in each heat and the next
four fastest times making the final, Melanson knew she would have to run
faster than 10:00 and place among the top eight in her heat to make that
happen.  She finished well enough to advance with a 9:59.96, avoiding the trap
of not being excited enough about the trials to race well.

Marissa McPhillips '20 was attempting the same triple as Gilson.  Having done
this same triple last year, McPhillips knew she was fully capable of handling
the load.  In the trials, she was in a section that was very strategic,
running a pedestrian 2:39 for the first half.  Running much of her race in
lanes two and three so she would be in position to respond to a strong
breakaway move. The pace never picked up, so McPhillips knew she would have to
place among the top three to make it into the final.  The pace picked up right
after the half but was still relatively slow overall.  McPhillips ran the
second half in 2:22 to advance with a time of 5:01.79.

MIT had two representatives in the 800, Bailey Tregoning '19 and Margaret
Trautner '20.  Trautner was up first.  With three sections, the top two in
each section and the next two fastest would advance to an eight person final.
After a slow first 600 of 1:42.8, Trautner moved into the lead.  With a 100
meters remaining she was passed, falling to third.  With her heat being slow,
she knew she would have to be one of the top two in her heat.  She tried to
move past, but interfered with another runner in her attempt, tripping herself
and getting disqualified in the process.  Tregoning was up next in the second
of three heats.  Her heat went out hot as she came through solid splits of 31,
64 and 1:38.  She fell off some as she closed, but held on enough for fourth
in 2:13.54.  Since the first section was slow, she could still get in as one
of the two fastest if the third heat was also slow.  Sure enough, despite
knowing what it would take the heat was slow, allowing Tregoning to make to
the final on Saturday.

The women's Pole Vault was next and MIT had three entrants in the event.
Anais Marenco '22 was not able to clear the opening height of 11-3 3/4 despite
having cleared 12-2 1/2 the previous week.  Jacqueline Ahrens '21, having a
12-2 mark to her credit, cleared 11-3 3/4, but that was it.  However, Kari
Stromhaug '19 continued to make height after height, often clipping the bar,
but not displacing it.  Her best this season had been 12-5 1/2.  She cleared
that on her first attempt, needed two to clear 12-7 1/2 and then cleared 12-9
1/2 on her first attempt.  This earned her third place as the top two cleared
12-11 1/2.

Back to the track for the 5K and Katie Collins '21, a sophomore with freshman
eligibility.  Collins has been on a mercurial line of improvement this year
and was seeded fifth based on her 16:53 performance two weeks ago.  However,
with her relatively low mileage and the recovery needed from her 5K/3K double
two weeks before, how she would respond would be of interest.  The leaders
went out ridiculously fast, coming through 1600 meters in 5:13.  Collins went
out in a reasonable 5:22 and was in 13th place.  She started passing people in
the second 1600, but was also slowing down more than she should have, running
5:29.  She was now in 11th place, but was starting to fade.  She passed two
more and was passed by one to end up in 10th in 17:13.87, a very respectable
time.

The final event for the women on day one was the DMR.  McPhillips, Trautner
and Tregoning were all coming back from hard races with Trautner suffering a
pretty nasty fall when she tripped. Only 400 leg, Sarah Ishamuddin '21 was
fresh.  Trautner ran well early on, but steadily slowed as the 1200 leg went
on.  She came through the 1000 in 3:00, took the lead briefly with 150 to go,
but then faded, significantly falling back to seventh at the handoff.
Ishamuddin got out well with a leadoff 28.0, but was unable to capitalize,
finishing in 61.2 as the team dropped to 10th.  Tregoning ran the race of her
life, running a smart, well paced race to move the team up to fourth with her
2:12.1 leg.  McPhillips moved up quickly with a 71 first 400 to pull up with
the leaders, who went out slow right from the start.  After a 78 second 400,
nearly the entire field had closed the gap.  The pace picked up a bit in the
third 400 and then opened up big in the final 400.  McPhillips closed well,
finishing in 4:55.5, good for sixth place overall in 11:47.13.

Saturday began with the Triple Jump.  Yorai Shaoul '21, national runner-up
last year, both indoors and outdoors, was the number two seed coming into the
championship.  That was laid to rest on his first attempt, a 49-11 1/4 bomb,
and season best, that no one ever came close to.  Shaoul's 10 points moved MIT
up to 18 points.

While the Triple Jump was in progress, the Mile final was taking place.  The
race could not have been more perfectly set up for Gilson.  Very similar to
the trials, the casual pace of 64, 2:08, 3:10, allowed Gilson to feel
comfortable at the mid-point and be in position to unleash his lethal kick.
He dropped a 59 to take fifth place in 4:09.69.  The men's scoring was over,
but 22 points was an impressive total.

McPhillips was up first for the women on day two.  The Mile pace was quick up
front, but McPhillips was in the back of the chase pack for the first quarter,
but gradually moved up as the race progressed.  At the start of the last
quarter she was moving up on fifth place when they started kicking.
McPhillips final 400 in 73 was not enough as two she had passed, passed her
back, dropping her to eighth in 4:55.52, but giving her yet another All
America honor and her team one more point.

The 800 was Tech's next event and Tregoning was MIT's representative.  The
senior was in her first individual NCAA final and was not going to let it go
to waste.  When she saw the first 200 in 32 she knew the pace was perfect for
her even though she was in the back of the pack.  After the 400 in 66.0, she
moved into seventh place.  In the final lap she moved into sixth with 150 to
go and into fifth with 50 to go, finishing in 2:12.73 for fifth place and her
first individual All America award.  Tregoning's four points gave the
Engineers 14 points.

The final event for MIT was the 3K starring Jenna Melanson.  The junior raced
with confidence despite her trials experience.  The pace was casual, about 40
seconds per lap as Melanson positioned herself in fifth for much of the early
part of the race.  As she passed the 1600 in 5:21, Melanson picked up the pace
as the top eight separated themselves from the rest of the field.  Her move
caused the entire lead group to speed up to a 78 and then 77 quarters as she
moved up to fourth and came up to run beside third place.  With three laps to
go Melanson was not able to match the speed of the leaders as she began to
slow.  She fell to eighth with 300 meters to go, but held onto that place,
still able to close with a 39 for a 9:54.83.  Her single point gave her team
15.

It has been a very successful season for the Engineers.  The next meet will
see a few distance runners at the Bridgewater State Invitational if weather
permits on March 21 and then March 28 for the technical athletes in California
at the UCSD Collegiate Open.  The first full team meet will be at home on
April 6 versus Bates, RPI and Tufts.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

MIT Men Dominate New England Division III Track & Field Championship

February 22-23, 2019

While the MIT Men's Track & Field team has dominated New England by winning
the Indoor New England Division III Championship six of the last nine years,
they lost the past two years.  Hosting the meet this year, the Engineers not
only stopped the bleeding, they put such a dominant stamp on their victory it
looks as if it might be the start of another streak.

Favored going into the meet by a score of 140 to 68 for Williams, 61 for
Middlebury, 60 for WPI and 59 for Tufts, it was possible the balanced team
could actually win the meet based solely on their field events.  Scoring 68
points in the field, Tech did beat all but one team with that total.  When it
was all said and done MIT scored 164 points despite pulling their 4x400,
backing off of their top 4x800 lineup and pulling 5K winner Josh Rosenkranz
'19 from the 3K.  Tufts was second with 78 points and WPI third with 67
points.  34 teams were entered in the meet and 24 scored.

MIT started the two-day meet with the Pole Vault.  Although they entered five
qualifiers, only Liam Ackerman '21 scored, clearing a personal best of 15-7
3/4 for second place, which may be enough to get him into the NCAA Division
III Championship field in two weeks.  Ackerman was clearly over 16-1 3/4 on
two of his three attempts, but nicked it enough with a body part to displace
the crossbar.

In the Distance Medley Relay, MIT was seeded third, but had a pretty strong
lineup that might be able to steal some points.  Kent Slaney '21 led off with
a very competitive 3:07.2 for the 1200 leg, taking the lead in the final 350.
Aiden Foucault-Etheridge '22 ran a 50.5 400 to expand the lead.  Simon Alford
'20 went out hard to expand the lead initially, but it got closed down to 10
meters by the Middlebury College team despite Alford running 1:55.6.  Matthew
Kearney '22 ran the 1600 anchor right with the top miler in New England until
the final 400.  Running 4:19, Kearney was able to bring in the baton in second
place with a total time of 10:13.54.

The final event of day one was the 5K.  Rosenkranz and Andrew Mah '22 worked
together, leading from start to finish, trading the lead after each 1600.
Rosenkranz started it off with a 4:44 first 1600.  Mah took over with a 4:49
second 1600.  By this point the duo had a comfortable lead.  Rosenkranz took
over again, slowing a bit to bring in the third 1600 in 4:55 before finishing
in 33 to win in 15:01.50 to Mah's 15:02.06.  For good measure, Josh Derrick
'20 finished sixth for three more points in 15:17.73.  At this point MIT led
with 37 points to 20 for Middlebury.

Day two started with the Long Jump and Weight Throw.  In the Long Jump, Joa
Kennedy '21, who had been cheated out of competing in the Heptathlon - a story
for another day - took out his frustration by not only making finals when
seeded 19th entering the competition, but proceeded to place sixth with a
personal best 21-6 1/4.  Yorai Shaoul '21 easily won the competition by
jumping 23-1 3/4, passing on all of his jumps in the final.

In the Weight Throw the quintet of MIT throwers did not have the best day, but
Jon Fakkema '19 got the job done by matching his seed, placing fifth with a
solid throw of 58-0 1/2.  The 17 points between the two events gave MIT 54.

Next up was a pivotal event, the High Jump.  MIT was favored for 16 points,
but anything can happen in the High Jump.  Caleb Harris '22 cleared 6-2 3/4
and 6-4 3/4 on first attempts while teammate Alec Reduker '20 entered at 6-4
3/4 and cleared on his first attempt.  At 6-6 3/4 Reduker cleared on his first
attempt, but Harris needed three attempts to move him to fourth place.  At 6-8
3/4 both Reduker and Baptista from UMass Dartmouth cleared with Reduker ahead
on misses.  At 6-10 3/4, Reduker cleared on his second attempt, refusing to
lose on his home track.  At 7' Reduker was clearly over twice, just nicking
the bar to displace it.  The 15 points earned gave the team 69, almost enough
to seal the victory and the meet was not even half over.

To the track, Aidan Gilson '19 and Slaney were up in the Mile.  Both got out
well.  Gilson made an aggressive move to get with the leaders in this high
quality field while Slaney was racing well but not quite as aggressive.  In
the third 440 it looked as though both were backing off.  While this was true
of Slaney, Gilson woke up and moved towards to front.  With 200 to go Gilson
blasted to the lead, but lost it with 100 to go.  Nevertheless he held onto
second place in 4:12.10.

Kennedy was back at it, seeded 14th in the 60HH, the sophomore made the finals
and then stole 7th place, running a personal best of 8.58 in the trials.

MIT does not currently have a plethora of sprinters, but what they have is
Benton Wilson '21.  Wilson was injured most of the season, but was fully
healthy for this championship.  He was to race the 200 and 400 and was favored
to win the 200 and seeded second in the 400.  The 400 was first.  Wilson,
relaxed the entire way, was second at the break in 23.2.  He took the lead on
the turn and was never threatened, pulling away in 49.67.  Assisting with
points despite a not too brilliant move of trying to pass on the inside, Nick
Duchatellier '22 placed sixth in 51.11.  Tech had 92 and were not looking in
their rear view mirror, but only what was to come.

Foucault-Etheridge was up in the 600.  He must have watched Duchatellier fail
on the inside pace and figure he could make it work, however he also failed.
Nevertheless, the freshman got the job done with a third place 1:22.42.

In the 1000, Gilson was back, joining Alford.  Both stayed near the front,
running even 30's through 800 meters.  Both pushed hard at the end with Alford
earning third in 2:31.32 and Gilson just .02 behind for fourth in 2:31.34.
This put the team over 100 with 109 points.

Back to the field events, the throwers wanted another turn at scoring some
points.  Will Woltmann '22 won the Shot Put on his first throw, a personal
best of 51-00 3/4.  Fakkema was sitting in third place until his first throw
in the finals when he threw a personal best of 49-7 3/4 to tie for second, but
was behind based on the second best throw.  On his final throw the senior
threw a better second-best throw to claim second place and give Tech 18 big
points.

The final field event only had one MIT entry, but that was Shaoul, so the
foregone conclusion of 10 more points for MIT was brought to fruition when the
sophomore jumped a season best 49-1 3/4.  Again he passed on all attempts in
the finals, making sure he is ready for the NCAA Championships in two weeks.

Now that Shaoul had won his two events, it was time to see if Wilson could do
the same.  Wilson wasted no time, running a strong first 150, then bringing it
home hard to win going away in a flat track best of 22.08.

The 3K was up, and even though the Engineers pulled Rosenkranz, Kearney and
Mah were still in there representing the freshman class with pride.  Both ran
a solid pace, trailing the leaders through a 4:31 first 1600.  Here the pace
slowed and neither of them prepared for the break made with 800 to go.
However, the rest of the field was not prepared either, so Kearney hung on for
fourth in 8:35.05 and Mah was fifth in 8:37.61.

Tech's final event was the 4x800 Relay.  Wanting to give everyone an
opportunity to score while saving Gilson and Alford for the DMR next week, MIT
changed their lineup.  However, true to the MIT way, the substitutes stepped
up quite well.  Ellery Rajagopal '21 missing the past two days with a fever,
put that behind him as well as most of the field as he led off with a 2:00.8
to put his team in fourth.  Slaney went out aggressively, moving the baton up
much closer to first, but still in fourth despite his 1:58.5.  Matt Schofield
'22 got the baton about 15 meters out of first.  Schofield kept the team in
fourth, ran his best race of his life with an excellent 1:59.5, but fell about
40 meters out of first.  Foucault-Etheridge took the baton determined to make
something happen, moving into third immediately after the pass.  With 400 to
go he moved into second and that was where he would stay, running 1:56.0 to
total 7:54.95, a season best.

Next week MIT heads to Tufts University to run in the Final Qualifier to try
and secure a few more NCAA Championship qualifying marks.



RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

MIT Track & Field Teams Accomplish Goals at Springfield Invite

February 16, 2019

When the NEICAAA Championship moved last year from this weekend to the first
weekend in February, it left a gap week between the New England Division III
Championship held on this weekend and the NCAA Final Qualifier on the first
weekend in March.  This year, the New England Division III Coaches Association
voted to move the championship to the final weekend in February, creating the
opportunity for a final qualifier of sorts on this current weekend.  There
were three such meets in New England at Bowdoin College, Middlebury College
and the Springfield College Triangle Classic Invitational.  The teams
attending were MIT, Conn. College,  Springfield College, Trinity College,
Tufts University, Williams College and WPI.

Most of the teams left a good portion their top athletes at home to rest for
next weekend's New England Division III Championship, as most of the events
were contested by those trying to get a qualifying performance, or a better
one in some cases.  Many of the top field event athletes competed making for
some great competition in those events.

For the most part, MIT accomplished what they were hoping to, improving marks
and providing flexibility with their potential entries for next weekend.  For
the men, one of primary areas of focus was to put up competitive times in the
4x400 Relay and DMR to get into the fast sections next weekend.  For a variety
of reasons MIT had not competed in a DMR and had only put together makeshift
4x400 units that had only produced a 3:31.32 performance.  Benton Wilson '21,
Nick Duchatellier '22, Aidan Gilson '19 and Aiden Foucault-Etheridge '22, with
no competition, put together a 3:25.25 performance that moved them up to the
number seven seed in New England.  In the DMR, the quartet of Matthew Kearney
'22, Joa Kennedy '21, Simon Alford '20 and Kent Slaney '21 put together
respective splits of 3:10.5, 52.9, 1:59.0 and 4:23.6 in their second or third
events of the day to run 10:26.16, a performance ranking them fourth in New
England.

The most outstanding single event for the men was a battle between the Shot
Putters and the High Jumpers, but the weight men pulled it out with four out
of five personal bests.  Will Woltmann '22 hit the 50' mark right on the
button to take first place honors.  Jon Fakkema '19 threw 49-7 1/4 for a
personal best and second place.  Ryan Nall '22 hit a PR of 47-8 1/2 for third
place and Nathan Basinger '22 added his own personal best of 45-7 3/4 for
fourth place.  Three of the four are freshmen and will be a group to watch in
the future.

While the vertical jumpers did not match the throwers, they did represent the
Engineers quite well.  Caleb Harris '22 matched his PR of 6-6 3/4 to win the
event.  Steven Speck '20 set a personal best of 6-4 3/4.  Sope Eweje '20 did
not set a PR, but jumped well, clearing 6-0 3/4.

The 800 runners got the job done to set themselves up as viable relay runners
next week.  Ellery Rajagopal '21 ran a 1:58.53 indoor PR to win his section in
an excellent race.  Matt Schofield '22 ran 2:00.12, a personal best.

In addition to his leg in the DMR, Joa Kennedy ran added personal bests of 21-
3 1/4 in the Long Jump and 8.76 in the 60HH.

For the women, the horizontal jumpers ruled the day.  In the Long Jump, three
of the four Tech jumpers entered the 17' range.  Elena Andree '22 led the way
with a 17-2 3/4 performance.  Yilinn Yang '22 was close behind at 17-2 and
Tema Nwana '21 right with them at 17-0 1/2.  Nwana, added a 10' PR in the
Weight Throw when she threw 40-11.

Yang joined Elizabeth Weeks '21 in the Triple Jump to place first and third.
Weeks earned first with a season best of 36-5 1/2 and Yang placed third with a
personal best of 35-6 3/4.  Andree added a fourth place even though her 35-4
was not a season best.

On the track, the 4x400 unit of Sarah Ishamuddin '21, Margaret Trautner '20,
Kristen Frombach '19 and Bailey Tregoning '19 put together a season best of
4:05.60 to put themselves in position to run in the second fastest section
next weekend.

Trautner had earlier run her first 600 in 1:38.61 to earn second place behind
teammate Tregoning who ran 1:38.51.

Next week the men will be at home where they will be favored to win the New
England Division III Championship after not winning it the past two years.
The men had won the previous four years in a row.  The women will travel to
Bowdoin College where they will be seeded a distant second place to Williams
College, who won the championship last year.  MIT had won the championship
2015-2017.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

Track & Field Teams Step Up to the Level of Competition at BU Terrier Classic

January 25-26, 2019

For the first time this season, the Men's and Women's Track & Field teams were
in a non-scoring competition, so had the opportunity to focus on a single
primary event with outstanding competition.  Most did not waste this
opportunity.

Most of the higher profile oval runners were competing at the Boston
University John Thomas Terrier Classic; the women on Friday and the men on
Saturday.  Those athletes performed very well.  Most of the field event
athletes and everyone else were competing at the Tufts University Branwen
Smith-King Invitational where the results were not quite so solid.

At BU on Friday the women from MIT took advantage of what is arguably the
fastest indoor track in the world.  First up for MIT was the 800.  Bailey
Tregoning '19 had a great first lap until she slowed at the end of the second
turn so she would be further in the back of the pack.  This adjustment cost
her a second or two as she had to make up that ground later.  Regardless, the
senior raced well, moving into second with 200 to go. She was unable to hold
that position, finishing sixth in 2:13.84, a time good for #6 in the country
for DIII.  Margaret Trautner '20 was in the next section.  She also got out
well, running 31.2 even though she was in the back of the field.  After a 64.4
400 she moved up to the lead pack of four.  As she prepared to go around them
they kicked it in and one more passed her although she ran an indoor PR of
2:12.89, currently #4 in the country for DIII.

In the 1000, Kira Buttrey '22 had the misfortune of being in a section that
did not go out fast \- 71 at the 400.  Buttrey took the lead at this point,
but was unable to stay relaxed in doing so.  The net result was she used a lot
of energy unnecessarily and got passed at the end.  Her final time of 2:59.22
was one tenth slower than she ran earlier this season on a flat track.

Marissa McPhillips '20 was up for her first serious Mile Run of the season.
Her section went out fast, perhaps a little too fast for McPhillips this early
in the season.  Her first quarter of 73 and half at 2:26 were certainly quick
even though she was in the middle of the pack.  The junior continued to
compete well, only slowing slightly as she finished in 4:57.64, good for #7 in
the country.  Tessa Weiss '20 hoped to capitalize on her excellent 3K from
last week, but once the pack settled she put herself right in the back instead
of seizing the opportunity to be up front.  Her initial 400 of 75 was perfect,
but she failed to move up with the pack, hitting the 880 in 2:34 and the 1320
in 3:54.  Her finish of 5:13.16 is not reflective of her ability, but a step
in the right direction.

The only two field event athletes representing MIT were both in the Pole
Vault.  Jacqueline Ahrens '21 is getting accustomed to moving up to bigger
poles, and when she gets there the rest of Division III may be in trouble.
She cleared 11-11 3/4 (#12 in the country) for a season best and teammate,
Kari Stromhaug '19, who cleared 12-1 1/2 (#7 in the country) earlier this
season, cleared 11-5 3/4, just missing 11-11 3/4.  Both are All Americans from
last year and should be there again this year.

At the end of the evening it was time for the distance events.  First up for
MIT in the 3K was Jenna Melanson '20.  It would be the Steeplechase All
American's first 3K of the season.  Seeded in the back of the second fastest
section (fastest section was won in 9:12), Melanson was hoping for 80 second
400's.  Although she was in the back of the pack the first quarter pace was
78.  Racing instead of focusing on splits, the junior moved up when necessary,
hitting the 1600 in 5:16.  Continuing to move up in the field as the only
Division III runner in the race, she continued hitting 79's until the final
200.  Her overall time was a huge personal best of 9:54.10, #6 in the country
at this time.  Einat Gavish '22 was in the next section.  She got out a little
too fast (79 for the 400, but ran very relaxed nonetheless.  After 1200 meters
something changed and the freshman disengaged a bit, slowing first to 85 pace
and then 88 and finally 94, finishing at 10:41.60

Saving the best for last, the final competitor for MIT was Katie Collins '21
in the 5K.  The goal was to run 5:30 pace and race.  She could not have
executed the plan much better.  She clicked off 41 second laps to a 5:29 first
1600, moving up in the field with an amazing feel for timing.  She slowed to
83 second 400's in the second mile despite taking the lead, coming through the
3200 in 11:02.  Collins continued to pull away from the field until one runner
closed hard and made an effort to steal the victory.  Collins closed with a 40
final 200 for the victory and an impressive personal best of 17:19.41,
currently ranked #8 in the country.

Day two at BU, the men's day, started with the 800 again for MIT.  Simon
Alford '20, still getting his fitness back in his third week back after
injury, ran a very smart race.  He did not allow the early pace to pull him
out, instead sitting in the back in 27.8 for the first 200.  He gradually
moved up in the field with splits of 56.2 and 1:24.8.  On the final
backstretch the junior waited a little late to start his kick, passing a few,
but getting hung out in lane two or three on the final turn.  He closed well
anyway, finishing in 1:54.28, #12 in the country.

In the 400 Benton Wilson '21, also just returning from injury, was looking
forward to his first 400 of the season.  Wilson did not disappoint, taking the
lead going into the break with a high 22 first lap.  He held it through the
finish where the strong first lap hurt him a bit, but still finished in a
personal best 49.16, #9 in the country.  Wilson returned in the 200 a little
later in the meet, running a season best 22.06, #14 in the country.

Nick Duchatellier '22 raced the 500 for the first time.  This is largely a
Division I event, so never competed at any Division III meets in New England.
Duchatellier got out really fast in 23.9, splitting the 400 in 51.  His final
100 was a struggle, but a strong time of 1:06.41 for his first time running
the event.

Kent Slaney '21 had a nice breakthrough in the Mile Run.  The only mistake was
that he went to the front of the field after the one turn break, bringing him
through 30.3 for the 200.  Once he settled in in third position, the pace
slowed to 62 at the quarter and 2:08 at the half.  A small group separated
from the field and Slaney was with them at 3:12 for 1200 meters.  Slaney took
the lead and came very close to holding it, losing the race in the final 50
meters, but still running a personal best of 4:16.36.

The only field entry for MIT was national runner-up Yorai Shaoul '21 in the
Triple Jump.  Going against his first real competition of the year, Shaoul
hoped to use the competition to his advantage.  Although he competed well,
Shaoul had trouble getting the feel of the flexible wooden runway.  Although
he made the finals and jumped a season best of 48-5 1/4, it was not what he
wanted, but still the best mark in the country for DIII.

The final event for Tech was the men's 3K.  Josh Rosenkranz '19 and Aidan
Gilson '19 were in a section together.  Rosenkranz was fresh off his amazing
14:38.70 (#5 in the country) flat track 5K from last week, and Gilson was
getting over an upper respiratory illness - hardly the best scenario for a
head to head match.  The pace was pretty perfect as the pack hit a 66 leadoff
400, slowed just a bit to come through the 1600 in 4:30.  At this point
Rosenkranz moved towards the front and Gilson started to fall back.
Rosenkranz took the lead, running 66 pace for the final 1000 and finishing in
8:23.35, #8 in the country.  Gilson briefly disengaged, but then responded and
held on for an 8:35.33.  In the next section was freshman Matthew Kearney.
The rookie had a fever yesterday and had decided not to race.  He felt much
better this morning, had no fever, and wanted to race - miracles do happen.
Not only did the freshman race, but he raced extremely well.  He locked onto
the chase pack and matched them step for step.  The 1600 split was 4:31.
After the 2K the pace picked up.  Kearney fell off slightly but increased his
pace to finish in an MIT freshman record 8:28.13, #18 in the country.

Over at Tufts, there were some outstanding performances, but not many.  It
seems most of the Engineers failed to compete at the expected level.

Perhaps the top performance was turned in by Alec Reduker '20 who won the High
Jump at 6-9.  Reduker actually won the event at 6-2 3/4, which took him three
attempts.  He then cleared the next two heights before missing at 6-9 1/2.

Ryan Nall '22 threw a personal best in the Weight Throw with a toss of 49-9
3/4 to finish behind teammate Jon Fakkema '19 at 55-4 1/4.  Staying with the
throws, Will Woltmann '22 threw 49-2 1/4 for a season best in the Shot Put.
This is truly an impressive freshman throwing class for teh Engineers.

The remaining positive performance for the men was Josh Derrick's 5K victory
in 15:35.04.

The women performed better than the men as a whole.  In the Pole Vault, Anais
Marenco '22 made a breakthrough to clear 11-9 3/4, #15 in the country.
Teammate Lila Wine '21 cleared 11-5 3/4 for a personal best.

Continuing with the jumps, Margaret Redfield '21 matched her personal best of
5-4 1/2 in the High Jump, good for 15th in the country.  In the Triple Jump,
Lucy Lee '21, who had earlier run a season best 9.68 in the 60HH, won with a
personal best 36-8 1/2, #19 in the country.  Elena Andree '22 also jumped a
personal best of 36-1 1/2.  Although none of the women jumped a PR in the Long
Jump, they all jumped well.

Season bests were earned by Darby LaPlant '19 in the 5K with a 19:11.56,
Skylar Brooks '20 in the 800 with a 2:23.22 and by Kristen Frombach '19,
running 62.84 in the 400.

Next week MIT will send a few field event athletes to the NEICAAA Championship
- a poorly attended New England Championship across all three divisions \- at
the Reggie Lewis Center, and the remainder of those competing will be at the
Tufts Cupid Challenge.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



  
|

![](../../itf_header_new.GIF)  
  
---  
  
  * Cross Country
    * **Cross Country Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Course Maps
    * Records/Past Seasons
  * Indoor Track & Field
    * **Indoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
  * Outdoor Track & Field
    * **Outdoor T&F Main**
    * Schedule and Results
    * Roster
    * Coaches
    * Qualifying Standards
    * Archives & Statistics
      * Records
      * Past Seasons
      * Best Performances by Year
![](../../rule.gif)

  * Recruit Info

  * Alumni Info

  * Contact

  * Conference Affiliations

  * Facilities

  * Other Resources

![](../../rule.gif)

  * MIT

  * MIT Athletics

  * Home

|

MIT Track & Field Teams Have Best Meet of Season at BU Valentine Invitational

February 8-9, 2019

On day one of the Boston University David Hemery Valentines Invitational and
the start of day two, the women representing MIT competed amazingly well.  All
in all the women came away with three NCAA Division III qualifying
performances, an MIT record and a few MIT top ten all-time performances.

Margaret Trautner '20, already qualified for Nationals in the 800, moved to
the 1000 to test her ability to run the 1200 leg of the Distance Medley Relay.
The junior ran an outstanding race, going out in 33.0, taking the lead later
in the race when it slowed and won going away with a new MIT record of
2:54.92.  This should give her confidence in being able to handle the DMR leg
the next day.

In the 400, Sarah Ishamuddin '21, recently tried the event to try and provide
a strong leg for the DMR, teamed with veteran Kristen Frombach '19 they were
racing to see who would be the best for the position.  For both it was the
first time on a banked track.  Ishamuddin raced first, went out in 28.3, ran a
great backstretch until she cut her momentum at the end of the straight
because she did not plan her pass well.  She accelerated again, but it took a
little out of her.  Nevertheless she ran 60.06.  Frombach also got out well in
28.8, but seemed flat and unable to take advantage of the banked turns.  She
finished in 61.94.

Marissa McPhillips '20 was out to improve her Mile time to guarantee a
national qualifying mark.  She was in a fast section and let them do the work.
Her first 440 was 72.4 and her second a 73.9.  She maintained that pace
through a 3:40.1 3200 then fell off just a bit in the final two laps to run a
Mile personal best of 4:55.05.  A time that should certainly get her into the
national championship.  Tessa Weiss '20 ran in a later section and also raced
well, but not to her potential.  The junior went out well in 75.2, but then
did not take charge when the pace slowed to splits of 2:32.7 and 3:51.2.  She
finished in a season best 5:09.71, moving in the right direction.

At the end of the first evening Tech had two in the 5K; Katie Collins '21 and
Jenna Melanson '20.  Both were racing to finish as close to 17:00 as possible
and beat as many as possible in the process.  The goal was 81-82 second 400's.
Collins and Melanson were perfect through a 5:25 first 1600.  In the second
1600 Melanson started to fall off at the end as she came through in 10:56 to
Collins's 10:55.  Collins refocused as she had fallen to two straight 83's.
She ran 82's the rest of the way until the final 600 where she ran 40 second
200's the rest of the way to a 17:01.78.  Melanson fell off with a final 1600
of 5:47, but closed with a 42 final 200 to show she lost focus in the final
1600.

While the second day was the men's day, the one exception was the women's DMR
at the start of the meet.  MIT was in the fast section based on last year's
performance as they had not run one this season.  Trautner was the leadoff for
the 1200 leg.  She positioned herself towards the back of the 12 team field.
The initial pace was just off the 35.0 goal at 35.7.  She went around a few
runners and hit the 400 split in 70.6.  Somewhere towards the end of the 600
she started thinking, which took her mentally out of the race a bit.  She
remained competitive and finished strong in 3:35.2.  Ishamuddin had a clean
exchange and ran an excellent leg, handing off in 59.0.  Bailey Tregoning '19,
who the day before had gotten caught up in a very slow, strategic 800 that
finished in 2:15, and typically tries to make up deficits in the first 200,
was very patient.  Even though she was behind the next runner by 25 meters at
the handoff, she gradually moved up as she split the first 400 in 64.3.
Although she fell off a little in the final 400 she split 2:11.7 to put the
Engineers in a great position for McPhillips to do her thing.  In sixth place
with five Division I teams in front of her, the junior moved up slowly.
However, moving up slowly brought her through a 70.5 first 400, which was way
too fast.  She showed her strength by not falling apart.  Although she did not
move into the top five despite a 2:24 800 and 3:40 1200, she did finish in
4:55.2 to anchor her team in 11:41.25, currently the fastest time in Division
III.

The men began with the 800.  Aiden Foucault-Etheridge '22 was Tech's first
competitor.  The freshman had missed a few weeks of racing due to a tweaked
hamstring, so was unsure how things would go.  To his credit he did not
consider that an issue and raced well.  With the exception of making a big
pass on the turn, having to go out to lane three, after 500 meters, he raced
well and nearly won as he was caught at the finish in a 1:54.45.  Reed Foster
'22, another freshman who had missed some time due to injury was in a similar
position, racing for the first time this season.  Foster also raced with good
instincts with the exception of making passes on three of the four turns.  He
pulled away in the final lap, running a 1:55.28.

Nick Duchatellier '22 was up next in the 400.  Getting a better feel for
collegiate indoor running and a better sense of pacing, the freshman went out
in control, positioned himself well at the break in 23.0 and proceeded to run
49.85, almost pulling out the section victory.

Alec Reduker '20 was the sole field event competitor for MIT.  Competing in
the High Jump, the All American was able to clear 6-6 3/4, but did not clear
6-8 1/4 despite two good attempts.

In the 200, Benton Wilson '21 improved his time to 21.82, which currently
ranks him 10th on the DIII national list.

Up in the 1000 were Simon Alford '20 and Billy Woltz '20.  Alford, the
defending New England Division III Champion, was cautious at the start in
order to avoid taking the lead as he was in the outside lane in a two turn
stagger.  He ran an excellent race from the back, hitting even splits to come
through the 800 in 1:59.7, but never had his notorious kick, finishing in
2:30.07, a nice season best, but lacking something at the end.  Woltz, trying
to find the right event this season as he has range from 800 to 5K, ran a
strong 1000.  Running the first 800 very well, he made a strong move to
approach taking the lead coming into the 800, but backed off at the end of the
straight, cutting his momentum as he tucked in.  He was unable to get it back,
finishing in 2:32.02.

The Mile was next and Aidan Gilson '19 was hoping to get out of his mental
funk and get back to being the runner he is.  The senior took one giant step
forward towards accomplishing that by delivering a 4:12.38 gem.  He raced very
well with splits of 62.7, 2:06.0 and 3:08.9.  He probably took the lead too
soon with 360 to go on the turn.  With 100 to go he faded a bit as he was
passed on the final turn.  This was a big boost heading into the
championships.  Kent Slaney '21 was in a later, slower section, so the concern
was that the pace would be too slow.  Although it was the 14th section out of
24 ( there had already been 12 sub-4 minute miles in earlier sections), the
pace was very fast with the opening 440 in 60.7 for Slaney and he was in fifth
place.  He ran a great race, moving up as the pace slowed, taking the lead
with 400 to go and holding it.  He finished strong in a personal best 4:14.86.

While the distance events had some excellent performances for the men
representing MIT, they were not quite to the standard set by their teammates
throughout the weekend.  Matthew Kearney '22 was up first for the Engineers.
Two weeks prior his 3K had set up perfectly for him to run 8:28.13.  This time
the section was much more competitive.  He was hoping to go through the 1600
in 4:24-4:28.  The initial pace did not get out well, which put Kearney in the
back in 69 seconds.  The pace did pick up, but not enough, and Kearney could
not get around those bunched in front of him who were three to four wide.  The
flow never happened and Kearney never was able to relax and race.
Nevertheless he ran a competitive race even though he fell off to 70's at the
end, finishing in 8:32.10.  Steven Goldy '20 was next and ran exactly has
planned, coming through the 1600 in 4:39.  Looking good with plenty in the
tank, Goldy never felt confident with opening up and going after the leaders
until the final 150.  Although his 8:43.32 was an excellent improvement there
is plenty more there.

The final event was the 5K.  Andrew Mah '22, racing the 5K for the second week
in a row, hoping to qualify for nationals ran into a similar situation as
Kearney in the 3K.  The initial pace was slow, and with Mah in the back, he
was unable to pass due to the congestion and number of bodies in front of him.
This combined with not being fresh mentally had him lose focus about half-way
through.  His 14:57.79 was far below his ability.  In the fourth section, MIT
had three runners; Josh Derrick '20, Finn Jacobson-Schulte '21 and Alex
Knoedler '18.  Derrick went out with the leaders, but was very uncomfortable
with how close the runners were.  He was not accustomed to having his heels
kicked and getting jostled around so he never relaxed, wasting significant
energy in the first half of the race.  While he slowed slightly during the
race from all the fatigue, he ran a strong season best of 15:09.38.  Jacobson-
Schulte and Knoedler worked together early, coming through the 1600 in 4:52,
but Knoedler was never relaxed.  Knoedler slowed to a 4:55 second 1600 and
Jacobson-Schulte a 4:57.  Jacobson-Schulte remained at 5:00 pace until the
final 200 where he ran a 35 for a 15:27.63.  He was never fatigued and did not
challenge his ability despite the personal best.  Knoedler's tense racing got
the best of him after 3200 meters, causing him to fade to a 15:34.61.

Back at MIT, the field event athletes, sprinters and hurdlers and a few oval
runners were competing in the Gordon Kelly Invitational.  The top performance
has to go to Jon Fakkema '19 in the Weight Throw.  The senior won with a huge
personal best of 59-2, number nine on the all-time MIT list and 19th on the
current NCAA list.  Also in the Weight Throw, Ryan Nall '22 threw 51-0 1/4 and
Nate Basinger '22 threw 47-2 1/2.

Joa Kennedy '21 attempted his first Heptathlon and performed amazingly well.
With marks of 7.53 in the 60, 20-7 3/4 in the Long Jump, 25-1 1/4 in the Shot
Put, 5-11 1/4 in the High Jump, 8.78 in the 60HH, 11-1 3/4 in the Pole Vault
and 2:46.98 in the 1000, the sophomore scored 4384 points, ranking him seventh
in New England Division III.

Alex Liu '22 had a big day, running 7.25 in the 60 and 23.59 in the 200, both
personal bests.

For the women Megan Su '22 had a great day, sprinting to an 8.32 personal best
and jumping 16-8 1/2 in the Long Jump.  Folusho Jebutu '20 did not quite throw
a personal best, but she did throw a season best of 48-7 1/4 in the Weight
Throw to win the event.

Next week, MIT will rest many of their athletes in preparation for the New
England Division III Championship on February 22-23.  Others will travel to
Springfield College to get some final qualifying marks or fine tune their
performances.

RETURN TO INDOOR

  
  
  |  
  



