

**TECH RUNS RECORD TO 8-1 WITH VICTORY OVER BOWDOIN, GORDON, SPRINGFIELD AND
TUFTS**

January 29, 2005

MIT took its lessons learned from last week's narrow loss to Williams and put
them to use against rivals Tufts, Springfield at Bowdoin College in Brunswick,
Maine. Seeded behind a good Tufts team, MIT runners and field athletes held
their own in some of the team's weak events, competed well against Tufts in
their strong middle distance and distance events and blew away the competition
in the 55, 200, pole vault and weight throw. MIT won with a score of 184 to
163 for Tufts, 109 for Springfield, 96 for Bowdoin and 0 for Gordon College.
The scoring format for five teams was used, which is 10-8-6-4-2-1.

Performing poorly in the jumps the week before, the Engineers found the mark
and not only jumped to many season bests but outscored their opponents in the
long jump, triple jump and pole vault with 39 points with the next closest
being Tufts with 30. Makinde Adeagbo move up two places on his final attempt
when he jumped 42-11 1/2 in the triple jump. Nestor Hernandez was not able to
move up but certainly secured third place in the long jump when he jumped
21-11 1/2. Matt Clancy moved up to fourth on his final attempt by jumping
20-10. The real assist to MIT came from the vaulters, who scored 20 points by
placing 1-3-4. Nate Ball led the way with a PR of 16-1 1/4 to qualify for the
NCAA Championship and is currently ranked third in the country.

In the sprints, Zach Traina continued his dominance and came away with another
double victory, winning both the 55 and 200. His only competition came from
teammates David Blau and Jonathan Hsieh. Blau ran a season best 6.71 in the 55
and a flat track personal best of 23.25 in the 200 to earn second place in
both. Hsieh, correcting a technique problem, improved tremendously, earning a
third in the 55 with a 6.76 PR to give MIT a 1-2-3 sweep and running another
PR of 23.68 to place fourth in the 200. Overall, MIT scored 46 points in the
two events, which was 30 points more than Springfield and 46 more than the
other three teams.

In the weight throw, Uzoma Orji set a season best of 59-00 3/4 to easily win
the event and move up to third in the country for Division III. David Saylor,
finding it difficult to live up to the expectations he set when he threw 57-8,
pulled out the second place on his final throw. This gave MIT 18 points in the
event and with Bowdoin picking up third, fourth and sixth that left Tufts with
only two points.

MIT certainly had its weak events. In the 400 and 600, traditionally strong
events for MIT, the Engineers only managed two points to 34 for Tufts, 15 for
Bowdoin and 11 for Springfield. The high jump, Tech's weakest event this year,
MIT could not manage any points. Sprinfield took the first three places to
keep Tufts from gaining many points.

In the middle distance and distance events, the 800, 1000, mile, 3000 and
5000, MIT held their own with 43 points to Tufts' 57, Bowdoin's 44 and
Springfield's 11. Minus Carlos Renjifo with a lower back injury, John Brewer
with a stress fracture and Chris Bruce with a calf injury, MIT was forced to
double its three top runners, Ben Schmeckpeper, Fivos Constantinou and Eric
Khatchadourian. Schmeckpeper placed second in the mile with a 4:20 and a third
in the 3000 with a 8:33.48 performance. Constantinou placed third in the mile
with a 4:22 and second in the 1000 with a PR of 2:34.65. Khatchadourian placed
thrid in the 800 with a personal best of 1:59.89 and came back in the 3000 to
earn fifth.

MIT finished the Division III part of the regular season with an 8-1 record.
Next week, MIT travels to BU to face the Terriers as well as Boston College,
Harvard, Northeastern, Providence and Rutgers. It should be interesting to see
how the Division III Engineers fare against the Division I teams.

RETURN TO INDOOR




TWENTY TWO SEASON OR PERSONAL BESTS LEAD WAY TO SECOND PLACE FINISH

MIT Finishes at 12-2

February 5, 2005

Going against five Division I teams can be intimidating if you are a Division
III college arguably known as the top academic institution in the world.
However, the MIT men's track and field team does not think that way. These
guys looked at the competition as an opportunity to compete against great
athletes in a great facility at Boston University and show the Division I
athletes what team track and field is all about. MIT took this attitude into
the BU arena and came out ahead of four of the five teams with 77 points,
using a 8-6-4-3-2-1 scoring system. Rutgers finished in first with 131 points,
and behind MIT were Northeastern with 62, Providence with 54, BU with 40 and
Boston College with 39.

Leading the way with personal bests was Ben Schmeckpeper, who smashed Bob
Walmsley's (class of '83) varsity record of 8:27.72 in the 3000 with a third
place finish of 8:20.69. Ben followed along with three Providence College
runners and John Mortimer running unattached, running along at 67 seconds per
quarter to come through the first 1600 in 4:27. Mortimer had pulled out front
by a good margin, but the remaining pack of four slowed a bit and Ben took the
lead. Ben did not do much with the lead other than keep the pace honest and
was outkicked in the final lap, but still managed a 30 second final 200.

Uzoma Orji had season bests in both of his events. He led off in the weight
throw, taking a 59-5 to take the lead on his fifth throw to win the event.
Adding four points in the weight throw was David Saylor with an effort of 55-6
1/2. In the shot, Uzoma continued to work on his technique and although he
threw 55-4 3/4, it was only good enough for a second place, his first loss of
the season.

MIT's only other victory was earned by Nate Ball in the pole vault. Nate was
clean through 15-6, earning the victory as the only one to clear that height.
At 16-0 he had three good attempts but was not able to put it all together.
Going through 15-6 with no misses will help Ball's confidence as he enters the
championships and the higher starting heights. Supporting Nate's effort in the
vault was Nestor Hernandez, who cleared 14-0 for the second week in a row,
earning 2 points for fifth place.

Zach Traina, hoping for a 200 varsity record, had to settle for second place
with a 22.55. Traina also scored second in the 55 dash and added a great
leadoff of 50.7 in the 1600 relay that placed third.

Although he only scored one point, Fivos Constantinou had a great day in the
mile and 800 meter races. In the mile, Fivos opened with a high 61 and was at
the back of the pack led by sub 4:00 miler Mark Carroll, running unattached.
Fivos came through splits of 2:07 and 3:13, showing he was unsure of himself
and the fast pace being set by the leaders. Unleashing a 63 final 440, Fivos
moved up to sixth place to earn a point for the Engineers and run a personal
best of 4:16.19. In the 800, Constantinou raced to another PR of 1:57.74, but
this was not fast enough to score.

Makinde Adeagbo had a great effort in his final attemp in the triple jump,
decreasing his contact time between phases and jumping to a PR of 43-8 1/2.
Makinde's performance earned him third place and four points.

In the middle distances, supporting Constantinou's efforts, Carlos Renjifo and
Eric Khatchadourian ran solid 1000's, running 2:34.93 and 2:34.97
respectively. Renjifo, not racing in four weeks as he recovered from a lower
back injury, earned sixth place for his efforts. Erik Stafl, even though he
did not place, had two very good races, running personal bests in both the
mile (4:29.70) and the 1000 (2:38.10).

Next week, MIT will split their squad, sending some back to BU for the
Valentine's Fasttrack Invitational to improve their seed performances for the
upcoming championships. The rest of the team will be at home to compete in the
Coed Invitational.



RETURN TO INDOOR









**VARSITY RETIRE ALUMNI FOR SIXTH IN A ROW IN ANNUAL MEET**

January 8, 2005

The "Has Beens", as the track and field alumni are affectionately known, won
seven of the fifteen events and were down by one point, 58-59 with two events
to go, but could not manage any more points as the varsity scored the final
fourteen by sweeping the 5000 and winning the 800 relay to close out the meet
with a 73-58 victory. The age grading tables did not work at meet time but the
scores will be adjusted as necessary.

In the grueling pentathlon, only Rick Rajter, now an assistant coach for MIT
while he works on his Ph.D, chose to enter. Rick easily established a lead by
winning the hurdles and never looked back, scoring 3126 to win by over 400
points. Freshmen Chris Desrochers and Omari Stephens placed second and third
in their first pentathlons.

With the field events getting under way first, the alumni hoped to establish a
lead to combat their lack of sprint and distance entries. In the weight throw,
the expected 1-2 finish of Uzoma Orji and David Saylor for the varsity came to
fruition. Only the ageless Bill Singhose saved the alumni from being swept as
he managed a 41-10 throw. In the shot put, Uzoma threw 53-6 1/2 to win the
event as expected. Francisco Cruz switched teams as a first year "has been"
and pulled out a second place. Greg Hunter, one who will certainly gain from
the age graded tables at 50 years of age, threw an excellent 37-4 to narrowly
miss out on third place.

The alumni swept the high jump as expected with Craig Mielcarz clearing 6-6
and nearly gettting 6-8 1/4. Brian Hoying and Rick Rajter backed that up with
jumps of 6-4 and 5-10. In the long jump, Ravi Sastry jumped 20-3 1/2 on his
last attempt to move into second place, but freshman Matt Clancy tied him on
his last attempt and took second place honors because of a better second jump.
Senior Nestor Hernandez won the event with a jump of 20-05 1/2. In the triple
jump, Rajter came through with his second victory by jumping 42-6. Makinde
Adeagbo and Anthony Teixeira jumped 41-4 1/4 and 41-3 1/4 respectively to
place second and third. Bill Singhose managed a second in the pole vault by
clearing 13-0, but the varsity earned first and third when Nate Ball cleared
14-6 and Josh Chartier and Hernandez cleared 12-6 to tie for the last scoring
position. The score after the pentathlon and field events was varsity 36,
alumni 27.

The running events began with the mile run. Last minute entry, Leif Seed, an
alum not heard from since graduation in '99, trailed Fivos Constantinou and
Ben Schmeckpeper through splits of 64, 2:11 and 3:16 before taking the lead
and finishing in 4:19.64. Fivos and Ben placed second and third with strong
performances of 4:21.02 and 4:22.42.

Returning from the pentathlon, Omari Stephens and Teixeira tried to prevent
another alumni sweep in the 55HH, but Rajter, Sastry and Mielcarz denied them
any points. Rajter won his third event, running 8.10 and accounting for 16 of
his team's points. The overall score was now 41-40 in favor of the alumni.

The 400 had the possibility of developing into another sweep for the alumni as
they loaded the event with Hoying, Matt Lehman, Yuval Mazor and Todd
Rosenfield. Fortunately for the varsity, freshman Kenny Rosche decided to
shake off any doubts he had about his rehabilitation from ACL surgery last
year and took the break, coming through in mid 24 for the first 200. Kenny's
technique fell apart in the final lap as Hoying and Lehman moved past him in
the final 60 meters. Jesse Collins moved up well at the finish to place right
behind Rosche's third place 52.74 in 52.94.

MIT wiped out the eight point deficit in the next event without having to put
forth much of an effort as the alumni had no entries in the 55 meter dash.
Nevertheless, Zach Traina and company did not take it easy. Traina finished
with an excellent early season performance of 6.69 to win the event. David
Blau ran a very respectable 6.78 for second and Jonathan Hsieh closed out the
scoring with a 6.96.

Just as the varsity took the lead, the middle distance runners in the 800 had
to face Leif Seed again. Fivos again showed no fear, taking the race out in 58
at the quarter and 1:28 at the 600. Leif showed why he was an All America
winner in this event as he cruised to the lead and finished in 1:58.29. Fivos
finished in an indoor PR of 2:00.16. Sean Montgomery faded in the final 400
but still held on for third place, giving the alumni a two point edge.

The alumni decided to enter the 200 with force rather than save everyone for
the 4x200. Lehman ran a great race, passing Blau for second place right at the
finish to run 23.61. Traina earned his second victory with a 23.03 despite a
horrible start. These results gave the varsity a one point lead going into the
5K and 800 relay, the final two events.

Right from the start of the 5K it was obvious that Ben Schmeckpeper and Eric
Khatchadourian would be the front runners. Starting slowly and bumping the
pace up to come through splits of 4:59 and 9:53, Schmeckpeper took control
just before the two mile mark with a 71 quarter. Eric held on for second but
his pace slowed to 5:14 for the third mile. Nevertheless, he ran a big indoor
PR of 15:48.64. Chris Wong ran a great race, negatively splitting the second
mile with a 5:05 to take control of third place ahead of alumni, Terry McNatt,
who was doubling back from the mile, and Craig Wildman.

Zach Traina led off the 4x200 for the varsity in order to give them a lead
over Mazor and the alumni going into the handoffs. A good handoff to Rosche
and a reasonably strong leg kept Hoying at bay. Despite a good handoff to
Collins, Lehman made up the two meter gap finishing nearly even at the final
handoff. Both teams had poor handoffs, but the varsity carried their speed
through the zone a little better, maintaining the inside track. Blau left an
exhausted but game Rajter behind to bring the varsity home in first.

Next week, MIT is again at home, hosting teams from Bates College and the
Coast Guard Academy at 1:00 on Saturday.

Those competing for the Alumni were the following:  
Bob Collins , Francisco Cruz, Brian Hoying, Greg Hunter, Steve Lefkowitz, Matt
Lehman, Yuval Mazor, Terry McNatt, Criag Mielcarz, Sean Montgomery, Garret
Moose, Rick Rajter, Todd Rosenfield, Ravi Sastry, Leif Seed, Bill Singhose,
Criag Wildman.

Those in attendance (I apologize if I missed anyone)

Akin Aina, Javit Drake, Jim Garcia, Tom Hansen, Dan Kwon, Chuck Van Buren

RETURN TO INDOOR




**MIT ENGINEERS CONVINCING VICTORY OVER BEARS AND BOBCATS**

JANUARY 15, 2005

The MIT men's track and field team hosted the Bears from the Coast Guard
Academy and the Bobcats from Bates College on Saturday at the Shobrys and
Aronson Track. Based on the entries and marks supplied by Bates and Coast
Guard, the meet was seeded to be close with Bates predicted to be within one
point of the Engineers. Bates had to scratch their top middle distance runner,
a favorite in both the 1500 and 800 meter races and many of their other
athletes did not appear up to the performances listed on their entries. Coast
Guard on the other hand came ready to compete, scoring more than they were
seeded to get and finishing second in the meet with 102 points. MIT performed
well in most events and made up for some errors in other events to come out on
top with 162 points. Bates placed third with 88 points. Scoring in the meet
went six places deep, 7-5-4-3-2-1 in individual events and 7-4-0 in the
relays.

Tech knew they would have to perform better than they did the past week
against the MIT alumni if they hoped to start the season with two victories.
Bates College is particularly strong in the throwing events and the Engineers
knew if they wanted to take down the Bobcats they would need to start by
winning the weight throw. MIT's goal would not be an easy one as Scott Cooper
and Dustin Gauthier of Bates were ranked number two and three in the country
for division III. However, Uzoma Orji, who placed fifth at the NCAA Division
III Championship last year, appeared up to the challenge. Unknown to many
throughout the country was David Saylor, who red shirted last year, and is now
throwing extremely well. Orji threw in the first flight, easily winning with a
54-0. The second flight had all the other good throwers and they were ready
right from the start. Cooper unleashed a 57-00 1/2 PR to show he intended on
winning. Saylor was next and he responded with a 57-4 1/4 personal best.
Gauthier threw well but only responded with a 52-9 1/2. In the third round
Saylor increased his lead with a toss of 57-8 and Gauthier passed Orji with a
54-4 effort. Starting the finals, Orji showed his pride as he went from fourth
to first with a throw of 57-9 to end the debate and give MIT a 1-2 finish in
the first event.

Going on at the same time was the long jump. MIT had a plethora of jumpers but
no one seemed ready to jump far. Fortunately for MIT, no one on either team
seemed ready to make the leap. Nestor Hernandez took the victory with a 20-10
1/4 effort and was supported by his team mates who placed third, fourth and
sixth to give MIT 15 points in the event.

The other key event for MIT was the 1500. Prior to the Bates runner
scratching, MIT figured they would need to have a great effort in this the
first running event in order to keep Bates from gaining confidence. With
Bates' scratch the MIT runners were seeded two, three and four behind Mike
Flint from the Coast Guard Academy. Already prepared to run fast, they did not
waste the adrenaline as they ran a very aggressive race, taking the pace out
in 61 at the quarter, 2:07 at the half and 3:12 at the 1200. Flint was able to
pull away to win in 3:59 but Tech runners were close behind with Fivos
Constantinou in 4:00.9, Ben Schmeckpeper in 4:01.2 and Carlos Renjifo placing
fourth in 4:01.9.

With the momentum in their favor, the rest of the meet just fell into place
for the Engineers. Freshmen Anthony Teixeira, Omari Stephens and Chris
Desrochers boosted the scoring for the class of '08 with a total of 24 points.
Stephens placed third in the pole vault with a jump of 12-9 and earned fourth
in the 55HH with a 8.61. Teixeira placed third in the triple jump with a 41-5
1/2 and ran a PR in the 55HH to place third in 8.50. Desrochers place fourth
in the high jump with a 5-8 leap, third in the long jump with 19-9 1/2 and
fifth in the high hurdles with a PR of 8.73.

MIT earned eight first places among the 17 events. Orji backed his weight
throw victory with a win in the shot put on his 54-9 1/2 heave. Zach Traina
earned victories in the both the 55 and 200 meter dashes with times of 6.72
and 23.23. Constantinou came back from his second in the 1500 to win the 800
in a personal indoor best of 1:59.57. Freshman Erik Stafl earned his first
collegiate victory by taking first place honors in the 1000 over teammate Sam
Berberian, both running 2:40.95. The 1600 relay team also ran to victory with
Jesse Collins getting a lead for Tech they never lost as Kenny Rosche, Matt
Clancy and Traina finished in 3:30.57.

With a very challenging schedule that boasts four division I teams, six of
their seven division III New England opponents being among the top ten teams
in New England and the defending New York State division III champion in RPI,
MIT will have to continue to improve throughtout the season if they hope to
claim a winning record. Next week they are again at home as they host RPI,
Westfield State and defending New England Division III Champion, Williams
College. The meet will start at 12:00 noon.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**BALL AND ORJI LEAD THE WAY AT IC4A CHAMPIONSHIP**

**MIT Places 20th With Record 14 Points**



March 5-6, 2005

As expected, as the championships get bigger, the star power on MIT's indoor
team shines brighter and brighter. On the first day of competition at the
Boston University indoor track, the Tech men scored nine points, putting them
in seventh place as three different Engineers earned points. On day two, the
Engineers added five more points to record the highest number of points for
MIT at this meet in modern history.

Leading things off for MIT was Nate Ball in the pole vault. As usual the
starting height at the IC4A was very high, and also as usual, seven of the 17
vaulters went out at the first height of 15-5. Ball cleared this on his first
attempt. At 15-9, Ball had a more difficult time, but still managed to clear
on his third attempt. At this point there were only eight vaulters remaining.
The bar was moved to 16-1 and again Ball made the height on his first attempt.
Two others made the height on first attempt, two passed the height and another
vaulter made it on his second attempt to bring the field to six. At 16-5 only
two vaulters succeeded and Ball was not one of them. However, he earned third
place based on misses, earning six points for MIT.

In the weight throw, both Uzoma Orji and Dave Saylor made the field. On Orji's
opening throw, he threw one well over 61' but it was called a foul. Although
it looked like a clean throw to most, a foul may have occurred after the
release. Orji's second throw was a sector foul so now he had to come through.
On his third attempt, Orji took a safety throw, leaving at least two feet to
spare in the circle. The mark was 59-8 1/4, good enough to get him into the
finals in fifth place. Saylor, throwing in the second flight, threw 57-5 in
the trials and then had to wait to see if this would get him into the finals.
The throw held up for eighth place going into the finals. In the finals, Orji
could not find the speed and position to get him a better throw. Two throwers
passed him in the finals, relegating him to seventh place. Saylor had a great
series and tied his personal record with a throw of 57-7 3/4 to earn eighth
place and one point for the Engineers.

Zach Traina took to the track in the 200 as MIT's only runner. Traina had been
sick the latter half of the week and was still a little under the weather at
race time. Nevertheless, Traina had a solid performance, running 22.11,
missing finals by only two places.

On day two, Orji was the only MIT athlete competing. He was seeded pretty far
down in the shot but put together his best series by far this year to enter
the finals in fourth place with a throw of 55-11. In the finals he started off
with 56-3 1/4 to move into third place. In the final round he was passed by
the thrower behind him. Orji responded with a 57-5 1/2 effort but it was not
enough to move back into third. This mark was over two feet better than what
he had done so far this season.

Ben Schmeckpeper, who had qualified in both the 3000 and 5000, did not run due
to the fact that the 5000 was held on Sunday, a day after the deadline for
NCAA championship marks. He therefore ran at a last chance qualifier on Friday
night at Yale but was unable to improve on his mark.

Also qualifying but not participating was the MIT distance medley relay team.
The relay was pretty far away from being able to score or qualify for the NCAA
championships so Coach Halston Taylor decided it was in their best interest to
use the time to prepare for the outdoor season.

On Wednesday, MIT heads to Bloomington, Illinois to compete in the NCAA
Division III Championship. Ball and Orji are definites to get in and look to
be ready to score big for MIT. Saylor and Schmeckpeper are on the bubble, but
are ready to produce if given the opportunity.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**ORJI THROWS FOR NATIONAL RECORD, MIT EARNS 9TH PLACE AT NCAA CHAMPIONSHIP**

March 11-12, 2005

  
Uzoma Orji set the national record today and won the NCAA Division III title
in the 35 lb. weight throw with a mark of 64-9 1/4, or 19.74 meters, on the
first day of competition at the national championships.

In the warmups, Orji threw an errant out of bounds throw, hitting an officia,l
who was not paying attention, in the head/neck region. The official was okay
after a few minutes but we were not sure the event had not taken Uzoma out of
his zone. On the first throw of the competition, Uzoma fouled out of the
sector. The second throw had the same results on the other sector line. Going
into the third throw Uzoma calmed down, gathered himself, and took a safety
throw. The result was the national record, breaking the old record of 63-11
3/4. The number one seed, throwing in the second flight, could not handle the
pressure put on him by Uzoma and fouled out. Uzoma threw another one out over
62' but could not quite catch a good toe turn and two to really put the record
out of reach.

Nate Ball and Uzoma Orji competed at the same time in the opening events on
the second day of competition, the pole vault and shot put respectively. In
the shot, Uzoma was not able to match last year's effort but he was successful
enough to have his second best throw of the season even though his technique
was the worst it has been. He threw 56-3 3/4 to finish one centimeter out of
third and earn five more points for MIT. In the vault, Nate cleared 15-5 on
his first attempt, and then at 15-9 he snapped his pole (a brand new but
flawed pole) on his second attempt. He was awarded another jump and cleared it
--a truly courageous effort. He also made 16-1 1/4 on his second attempt and
at that point was tied for fourth. However, at 16-5 1/4 he was not able to
make the height and five others did. Two eventually cleared 17-1 1/4 and one
of those cleared 17-5. Nate finished seventh for a final MIT total of 17
points, earning Tech a ninth place finish.

Once again, MIT ended the season as the top New England team. Ball and Orji
will now join the rest of the team that has been training for outdoor track in
preparation for another successful season. MIT will head to California on the
spring break trip where they will train at Claremont Mudd Scripps and compete
at UCSD to kick off their outdoor competition.  

RETURN TO INDOOR




BALL VAULTS TO NEW HEIGHT

Orji and Schmeckpeper Join Vaulter in Leading Engineers to Fourth Place

February 19, 2005

MIT traveled across town to Tufts University to attempt to out-perform their
fourth place seed in the New England Division III Championships this Friday
and Saturday. The top seeded athletes on the team came through with three
first places and two seconds for 48 of the teams 67 points. However, the
Engineers were unable to get much out of their lower seeds, making it
impossible to catch any of the top three teams. Williams College had the best
meet of any team, scoring more than 20 points over their seeds. Seeded to
score 96 points, the Ephs scored 123 to easily win their second championship
in a row. Tufts, the top seed, had a very good meet, scoring 108 1/2 points.
Bates College, had a good meet early, performed according to their seeds in
the end, finishing with 77 to beat MIT by 10.

MIT's plan was to start the meet out with strong performances in the opening
events, the weight throw and long jump and add to the momentum achieved by the
three points scored in the pentathlon the day before when Chris Desrochers
finished strong in his final two events despite an injured hip flexor and
moved up to an unexpected seventh place. Thad Wozniak scored nearly two
hundred points more than last year in the pentathlon and finished four places
lower, but nevertheless gained an unexpected point by placing eighth.

Things did not go the way the Engineers wanted in those early events on
Saturday however. Uzoma Orji fouled his first attempt in the weight throw but
then cranked a 58-4 effort on his safety throw. Once he tried to put
everything into the throws nothing improved. On his final attempt, Scott
Cooper of Bates threw a personal best to take the lead and deny Orji the
championship. David Saylor, seeded third due to an early season throw,
regained some of his touch, throwing 56-3 1/4, which was only good enough for
fifth place in this talented field.

In the long jump, Nestor Hernandez was seeded sixth by a mere centimeter.
Hernandez had shown on some fouls in the past couple of weeks that he was
capable of a big jump and Tech was counting on that sort of performance to get
things going. Hernandez had a very good jump of 21-8 1/4 but that was only
good enough for seventh place.

On the track things continued to just miss. David Blau, not seeded to score in
the 55 dash, ran well but missed the finals by .004 seconds. Likewise, in the
200 trials, Blau drew lane two, which was the most inside lane since lane one
was not being used. No one qualified for the final out of lane two even though
Blau came close. Zach Traina, drawing lane six in the trials, ran a flat track
personal best with a 22.42 to lead all qualifiers.

In the first track final, the 1500, Fivos Constantinou hoped to battle for the
victory against a very talented field that showcased six national qualifiers.
The pace was very conservative, going through quarter splits of 65, 2:10 and
3:15. Constantinou does better off of a fast pace as his stride is a little
too long to produce the sort of kick needed to win off a pace that slow. True
to form, the leaders accelerated into a 41 second final 300 while Constantinou
was only able to produce a 47, relegating him to eighth place.

Neither Kenny Rosche, running in the 400, nor Jesse Collins (600), were seeded
to score. Both ran flat track personal bests of 51.22 and 1:24.97
respectively, but neither scored although Rosche only missed by one place.

MIT had no entries in the 55 high hurdles, high jump or 800 meters. In the
1000 meter race, Eric Khatchadourian, seeded seventh, made a valiant effort
out of the slow section final. Running with eventual winner, Aaron Kaye of
Tufts, Khatchadourian went through very fast 200 splits of 29, 60 and 1:30
before falling off, slowing to a 64 final 400, placing him ninth.

As the end of the meet neared, MIT was stuck with a mere 19 points. Things
began to fall into place as Orji won his specialty, the shot put, with a throw
of 55-0. About the same time, Traina, receiving lane four, ran to a second
place in the 200 to finish one place higher than he was seeded.

In the triple jump, Makinde Adeagbo struggled on his first two attempts but
then jumped 43-1 1/2 to make finals. Adeagbo never improved his mark but held
onto seventh place.

The pole vault, another possibility for big points given that MIT had four
qualifiers, although only seeded to score 13, did not quite go as hoped. Omari
Stephens continued to improve and show promise as he vaulted to a personal
best of 13-0 1/4. Josh Chartier had an off day and did not score, only jumping
12-6 1/4. Hernandez was looking good on the pole and getting plenty of height
but vaulted into the bar on all three attempts at 14-0, leaving him with
eighth place. Nate Ball entered at 14-6, about the time everyone else was
finishing. Two other vaulters cleared 14-6 and one of those made 15-0. Ball
first attempted 14-6, 15-0 and 15-6. He then cleared 16-1 and 16-5, a new MIT
record and the third best vault in the country for division III, with ease.
All three attempts at 16-9 were very good attempts, indicating it is just a
matter of time before Ball is going after 17-0.

Ben Schmeckpeper stepped to the track as the favorite in the 3000 and did not
disappoint. Biding his time through a rather pedestrian 4:38 first mile,
Schmeckpeper took the lead and picked up the pace. The final 600 was in 1:36
as he finished with a 8:32.04 victory.

Freshman, Chris Wong, represented MIT in the 5000. Wong had been sick for the
past week but started the race determined to place. Going out in a quick pace
of 4:53 for the mile and 7:19 for the 2400, Wong tried to stay within striking
distance of eighth place. However, going into the two mile mark, Wong's pace
fell off to 78 second quarters as he was no longer able to hold on.
Nevertheless, he ran a solid 15:42.95.

MIT put together a pretty good distance medley relay and was hoping to
challenge for the victory. Williams College ran in the slow section, which ran
first, and established a time to beat of 10:26.16. Middlebury also ran in the
slow section and also managed a fast time of 10:29.16. Few teams could put
together a fresh team at this point in the meet and MIT was in that boat as
only Carlos Renjifo was fresh. As such, Renjifo led off with the 1200. Hoping
to run 3:06, the ailing Renjifo couldn't seem to run faster than 32 seconds
per lap. His 3:12, while solid, put MIT far behind the leadoff legs of Tufts
and Amherst. Wozniak returned from the pentathlon and stopped coughing from
his cold long enough to run a 53.5 400 leg. Khatchadourian came back with
minimal rest after the 1000 and delivered a good 2:03.5 leg to keep MIT in
battle, albeit pretty far from Amherst. Constantinou got the baton and
proceeded to work on the 10 second lead by Amherst. Constantinou ran equal to
his 1500 open race earlier, coming through the 1200 in 3:16 and trying to
close the final 30 meters on Amherst. Finishing with a 64 to end his 1600 in
4:20, Constantinou did not quite catch his quarry. Nevertheless, the 10:30.19
was good enough for fifth place.

The 1600 relay, MIT's final scoring threat of the day, was one man short of
being a contender for the victory. Traina, returning from the 200, blasted a
fine 50.7 leadoff leg to stay even with the leaders. Collins, a very good
relay runner, ran 51.0 to keep MIT right in front. Ulzie Rea, greatly improved
this year, just is not yet as fast as the top 400 runners. His strong effort
left him with a 53.6 leg and dropped MIT back to 5th place. Rosche did another
fine job of closing, nearly catching the Bates anchor as he finished his leg
in 51.0. MIT's overall time of 3:26.49 was their best of the season on a flat
track and placed them fifth overall.

Having too many empty events and needing to depend on unseeded qualifiers was
too much for the Engineers to overcome. The goal of capping the season with
the New England Division III Championship was wishful thinking given the
current talent pool of MIT and that of their competitors. Given their top
talent, MIT should fair better in the upcoming championships against all
divisions as well as the NCAA championship in March. Next weekend, MIT is back
at Boston University for the All New England (NEICAAA) Championship on Friday
and Saturday.

RETURN TO INDOOR






**MIT PLACES 9TH IN ALL NEW ENGLANDS**

**Traina and Rosche Set New Records**

February 25-26, 2005

MIT's Men's Track and Field team visited Boston University for the NEICAAA
(All Division) New England Indoor Championship on Friday and Saturday, coming
away with 30 points to place ninth and first among Division III teams. Uzoma
Orji led the way individually with 13 points while Zach Traina and Kenny
Rosche set MIT records in the 200 and 400 respectively.

On Friday, Orji led things off in the weight throw. He produced his best
series of the year with nearly every throw being over 58'. His best throw was
59-8 1/2, good for second place and eight points. David Saylor, seeded
seventh, was unable to put together a good throw. Apparently leaving his best
efforts in practice, Saylor only threw 52-4 1/2 and did not make finals.

At the same time, Nate Ball was soaring high in the pole vault with an opening
clearance at 15-0 and a second attempt make at 15-5 3/4. At 16-0, fatigue from
a hard week in the machine lab getting a project ready for competition began
to show. Ball was not as sharp or emotionally charged. Failing at three
average attempts at 16', Ball had to settle for second based on his miss at
15-5 3/4.

Fivos Constantinou competed in the mile hoping to improve his national
provisional mark. Constantinou followed along in the trials through quarters
of 63, 2:08 and 3:12. Unable to kick with the leaders, Constantinou maintained
the pace, finishing in 4:16.42, not good enough to make finals.

In the 400 trials, Kenny Rosche was trying to see if his recent improvements
could continue. Going out in a fast, but relaxed 23.0, Rosche was able to
finish strong despite continuing his bad technical habit of leaning back in
the last 150. Rosche's final time was a remarkable 49.78, a new freshman
record. Rosche's record replaces the 49.8 run by Lance Parker in 1981.

Shortly after the 400 trials, Zach Traina and David Blau took to the oval in
the 200 meters. Traina, going after Mark Dunzo's elusive varsity record of
22.17, was physically and mentally ready to finally put the record down.
Drawing lane five, Traina knew if he got out well the record would fall.
Traina came off the final curve and sprinted down the bank to place second in
his heat - the time: 21.98 - a new varsity record. David Blau, setting his
blocks up in lane six, was at least going to try to give Traina some
competition. Running a personal best of 22.56, Blau just missed making the
finals.

Wrapping things up on Friday night, Ben Schmeckpeper lined up for the 5000.
Seeded fifth, Schmeckpeper was going for the victory. Most of the Division III
runners were more in the race to improve their position on the national
qualifying list than worrying about placing. With that in mind, one would
think the pace would be quick but mile splits of 4:44 and 9:29 showed no one
really wanted to take the lead. Fed up with the slow pace and sensing a good
opportunity to gap the other runners, Schmeckpeper took the lead. Running 2:17
for the next 800, Schmeckpeper opened up a 20 meter lead. Coming through the
third mile in 4:38, Schmeckpeper began to slow a little and lost his lead.
Only able to finish the final 200 in 35 seconds, Schmeckpeper had to settle
for third place and a time of 14:42.36. Although the race was a disappointment
to Schmeckpeper, it was a great effort as well as placing two spots higher
than he was seeded.

MIT completed the first day with 22 points and in second place behind the
University of Rhode Island. On day two, MIT only had Orji in the shot put and
Traina in the finals of the 200. Orji began the shot seeded fourth. Trying to
fix a technical flaw of not getting his left foot far enough to the left of
center and not getting his right foot far enough under him, Orji was
determined to break out of this bad habit. Opening up with a 54' effort, Orji
guaranteed his place in the finals. Once in the finals, Orji raised his
emotional effort but was still unable to fix the position of his feet. His
best throw was his fifth, a 54-5 1/4 effort that secured his fourth place
position.

Traina again was favored with a good lane draw, lane six. Lining up in the
slow section of the two section final, Traina did not appear to be as "fired
up" as the night before. Not accustomed to competing in two day events and
having to "bring it" both days, Traina left most of his effort on the track on
Friday. Nevertheless, Traina sprinted around the track and ran a very strong
22.02 to finish third out of five in his section. In the fast section, three
athletes beat Traina's time, placing him in sixth.

Defeating all the Division III teams was a nice reward after last week's
fourth place in the Division III Championships. Next week, Orji, Ball, Saylor
and Traina will be back at Boston University to compete in the prestigious
IC4A Championship.

RETURN TO INDOOR




**MIT Loses to Williams College in Nail Biter**

January 22, 2005

As the Engineers of MIT planned to host the competition this week against RPI,
Westfield State and Williams College, it appeared that the spectacular record
achieved by the men's track team was in jeopardy of not continuing its high
standard. In the past 23 years of indoor track (Coach Halston Taylor's tenure
as assistant and head track and field coach) the Engineers have only lost six
times to Division III schools, if of course you do not count Williams College.
Of the 21 meetings between the two schools, MIT had won 10 and Williams 11.
Never before had MIT lost to more than one team in a non-championship meet.
However, for this meet, MIT was seeded third, behind Williams by 60 points and
RPI by 30 points. While this fact certainly motivated some members of the
team, it may have also served to intimidate others into thinking they could
not win irregardless of their efforts.

A see-saw battle that was waged for three hours came to an end with Williams
coming out on top 202 to 197.5 for MIT. RPI trailed with 145.5 followed by
Westfield State with 53. The Engineers certainly made the meet close but
lacked the depth and possibly the desire to get the job done.

MIT jumped out to a sizeable lead at the beginning, but scoring eight places
with points being awarded at 9-7-6-5-4-3-2-1 for individual events and 9-7-6
for relays meant that no lead was safe. In the weight throw, Uzoma Orji threw
a season best of 57-11 1/2 to easily win the event, but David Saylor missed
out on a chance for a 1-2 finish when he lost out to Dan Austin of Williams by
one inch 54-8 to 54-7. In the first running event, MIT had to substitute Eric
Khatchadourian for an injured Carlos Renjifo, and seemingly nothing was lost
with the substitution, as they still managed to place 1-2-3 with Ben
Schmeckpeper continuing to shine, running 4:19.03 for a personal best in the
mile. Fivos Constantinou earned second place over Khatchadourian as both ran
4:26.

As the meet progressed the opportunities came and went but MIT did not seize
them all. In the long jump, Tech managed a 3rd, 6th and 7th by Nestor
Hernandez, Matt Clancy and Chris Desrochers respectively, but with the winning
effort at 21-3 3/4 the victory was certainly within the ability of the MIT
jumpers. However, in the second running event, the 55HH, the three freshmen
continued to improve securing 4-5-6 places led by Omari Stephens and followed
by Anthony Teixeira and Desrochers.

The next events in the field and on the track, the pole vault and 400 had
mixed results. Nate Ball vaulted 15-6 to provisionally qualify for nationals
and win the event over some very good vaulters, but with the exception of
Stephens coming through with a tie for 5th at 12-6, and Patrick Barragan
claiming a personal best of 11-6 in a non-scoring effort, the vaulters did not
take advantage of poor performances by their opponents and missed out on
valuable points. The 400 had freshman Kenny Rosche claim victory in a time of
52.81 and Ulzie Rea ran a PR of 54.38 for 5th, but MIT's lack of depth could
not take advantage of a very weak field.

The 600 again showed a lack of depth for Tech but plenty of fortitude. Jesse
Collins ran a fine race, claiming second in 1:25.73. Both Dave Reshef and
Franklyn Lau fought hard to claim 7th and 8th places respectively. Despite the
missed opportunities and lack of entries for MIT, at this point they were
leading Williams 100.5 to 67.

Things began to change in the next two events, the high jump and 55 dash.
Williams claimed first and second in the high jump with relatively low heights
of 6-0 and 5-10 and MIT was only able to manage a seventh place even though
they jumped well for their abilities. In the dash, both Zach Traina at 6.70
for third place and David Blau at 6.74 for seventh, ran well but Williams
still outscored Tech 14-8. In the two events Williams had gained 20 points.

MIT was still happy to be in the lead but that was about to
change.Constantinou came back from the mile to run the 800 against five fresh
Williams runners. Constantinou proved no match for the Williams runners as
they swept the first four places and added insult to injury by also gaining
sixth place. In addition to Constantinou's fifth place, Erik Stafl was able to
support with a seventh place. Williams' 30 points in the event put them in the
lead 127 to 116.5.

MIT bounced back in the 1000 as Schmeckpeper got back on the track.
Schmeckpeper led from gun to wire as he ran 2:38.49. Sam Berberian garnered a
fourth place and Khatchadourian managed to hold on for seventh. Steve
Nicholson scored his first varsity point with an eighth place finish to give
MIT 17 points to Williams 14 for the event.

Uzoma Orji went back to work in the shot put, remaining unbeaten with a throw
of 54-4 but those were the only points for MIT in the event. Williams pulled
out 12 points with third, fourth and eighth places to bring the score to153
for Williams and 142.5 for MIT.

The 200 brought Traina and Blau back to the track and neither disappointed.
Traina ran a season best of 22.74 on the flat track for third place and Blau
also turned in a season best of 23.67 to place 6th. The unfortunate part of
the story was that Williams went 1-2 and 8 to outscore MIT 17-9.

The triple jump was being competed in the infield and was looking like MIT
might need some career performances to pull that pivotal event out. Just as
the MIT team seemed to be getting down, the distance runners took to the
track. With Schmeckpeper and Khatchadourian taken out of their primary event
in favor of the middle distance events and Renjifo on the sideline injured,
the team looked to those unaccustomed to the pressure of having to get the job
done. Williams was also minus their top two distance runners as All America
runner Neal Holtschulte was out with a minor injury and second man, Sam Van
Volkenburgh, ran the mile. MIT's runners showed no fear of their opponents,
running a very quick pace to come through the first mile in 5:03 and this for
a group of runners who had never broken 16:00 or in some cases, even come
close. After the 2400 mark the lone Williams runner and Chris Wong, Kevin
DiGenova, Ian Driver and Chris Bruce broke the one contending RPI runner. 250
meters before the 3200 mark Chris Bruce sustained a calf injury that dropped
him out of the race. Grant Hofmeister and Rocco Repetski, running in
contention for seventh and eighth, now became even more important. The pace
slowed slightly in the second mile to 10:12 for the leaders and this is where
Wong and DiGenova took control, dropping the Williams runner and the rest of
the MIT runners. Wong went on to a strong victory, running 5:04 for the third
1600 and finishing with a 33 final 200 to run 15:49.40. DiGenova also broke
16:00 with a 15:57.44 for second place. Driver raced to an excellent fourth
place finish in 16:12.09. Hofmeister and Repetski held on to do their part
with seventh and eighth place finishes. The score was now a lot closer with
MIT only trailing by 1 1/2 points with the triple jump and both relays still
to go.

With the relays possibly playing an important role in the outcome, MIT loaded
both relays with their best runners. In the 4x400 this meant Collins leading
off followed by Rosche, Clancy and anchored by Traina. Collins opened up with
a lead over Williams but was unable to gain a lead over RPI. Both Rosche and
Clancy ran well but the situations stayed the same with Williams falling
further behind and RPI maintaining their lead. Traina was unable to gain much
ground on RPI and MIT settled for 2nd, gaining one point on Williams, making
the difference 1/2 point.

In the 3200 relay, Stafl led off with a fine 2:05 to take the lead. MIT
followed with Constantinou, Khatchadourian and Schmeckpeper to run away with
the victory in 8:15.47. Williams seemed to finish second but was disqualified
by the referee on a uniform violation and now MIT owned a 8 1/2 point lead.

In the triple jump, neither Teixeira nor Jason Alcaraz were able to score,
leaving Makinde Adeagbo to defend against a trio of Williams jumpers in the
finals. It was not to be as Williams placed 1-2-5 to score 20 points and put
the victory away.

MIT performed well but missed out on key opportunities in some of their strong
events. Next week, the Engineers travel to Brunswick, Maine to compete against
host Bowdoin, Springfield and Tufts. All three teams are capable of defeating
MIT so the Engineers will have to improve on their ability to take advantage
of any situation that presents itself.

RETURN TO INDOOR








ORJI LEADS MIT OUTSTANDING PERFORMANCES

62-6 3/4 Weight Throw Sets MIT Record and Leads Country in Division III

February 12, 2005

MIT's Track and Field team split their squad between Boston University's
Valentine's Meet and MIT's Coed Invitational for the purpose of pursuing
better performances to either end the season or qualify for upcoming
championships. Uzoma Orji led the way for MIT, which had 12 season or personal
bests, when he threw 62-6 3/4 in the weight throw for an MIT record and to
lead the country among division III throwers.

Orji, just recently adding a toe turn to his weight throw to gain some speed
entering his normal turns, got the speed, but not the control as he did one
heel turn after the toe turn, had a poor release, but managed over a two foot
personal best with his record setting throw. Orji's throw broke the record of
61-6 held by Patrice Parris since 1984.

Also competing at BU, Ben Schmeckpeper was looking for a new varsity record in
the 5000. He settled in with a 70 second pace behind the lead runner but grew
impatient even though the pace picked up to 69 second pace. After the mile
mark, Schmeckpeper took the lead but soon fell a little off pace, running the
second mile in 4:43. Schmeckpeper remained competitive, running 4:45 for the
third mile and finishing with a 33 last 200 to record a season best 14:40.66.
The performance provisionally qualified him for the NCAA championships in four
weeks. Running in a different section of the 5000, Chris Wong ran a great
race, only deviating by four seconds from his slowest to fastest 400 en route
to a 12 second personal best of 15:30.97.

Kenny Rosche carried the team's momentum into the 400 as he tried to gain
entrance into the fast section of the 400 in next week's New England Division
III Championship. Running aggressively for the entire race for the first time
this year, Rosche came through the first 200 in 23.4. Getting the lead at the
break, Rosche held on to run an indoor personal best of 50.86.

Jesse Collins made another attempt to better his seed in the 500 meter run for
next weekend's championship. Running a more even pace than in previous
attempts, Collins perhaps waited too long to make his move as he appeared to
have a lot left at the finish. Nevertheless, Collins ran a personal best of
1:07.34

In the shorter one lap race, both Zach Traina and David Blau ran well. Traina,
also in the hunt for a varsity record, fell just short of Mark Dunzo's 22.17
with an indoor personal best of 22.31. Traina's result was compromised by the
fact that blocks were not allowed in these later sections. Blau got out well
and also ran a season best, clocking 22.89 for the 200.

On Friday night, MIT put together a distance medley relay team in an attempt
to qualify for the national championship. Needing a time of 10:13.30 on the
banked track, Eric Khatchadourian led things off with the 1200 leg. Running a
smart pace of 61 at the 400, Khatchadourian was already out of the race as the
back of the pack was at least 20 meters ahead. With no one to run with,
Khatchadourian fell off the pace in the final 400, finishing with a 3:09, four
seconds slower than he hoped. Traina received the baton in an effort to get
the team back into the race. Despite his 49.2 leg, he was not able to make up
much ground on the strong field. Carlos Renjifo, returning to competition
after being injured, ran the 800 leg as well as could be expected. Running
alone, far behind the pack, Renjifo came through 600 metes in 1:29 but fell
off the pace in the final 200, finishing in 2:01. Fivos Constantinou anchored
the relay with the 1600 leg. Constantinou also tried to make the race
competitive, running through splits of 60, 2:04 and 3:09 but was unable to
make up any significant ground. Falling off pace in the final 200,
Constantinou finished with a 4:17 to give the team a 10:18.30 overall
performance. In two weeks, at the All New England Championship, the quartet
will make another attempt when they are better rested and more prepared to run
fast.

Next Friday, the pentathletes make the trip to Medford to compete at Tufts
University in the New England Division III Championshp. On Saturday, the rest
of the qualifiers for MIT will put their best effort forward in an attempt to
win the Championship, which they have won three of the past five years.

RETURN TO INDOOR

.


